ComputersandElectronicsinAgriculture220(2024)108902
Contents lists available at ScienceDirect
Computers and Electronics in Agriculture
journal homepage: www.elsevier.com/locate/compag
TSANet: A deep learning framework for the delineation of agricultural
fields utilizing satellite image time series
Shuai Yana, Xiaochuang Yaoa,b,*, Jialin Suna, Weiming Huangc, Longshan Yangd,
Chao Zhanga,b, Bingbo Gaoa,b, Jianyu Yanga,b, Wenju Yuna,b, Dehai Zhua,b
aCollege of Land Science and Technology, China Agricultural University, Beijing 100193, China
bKey Laboratory of Remote Sensing for Agri-Hazards, Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Affairs, Beijing 100193, China
cSchool of Computer Science and Engineering, Nanyang Technological University, Singapore 639798, Singapore
dMining College, Guizhou University, Guizhou 550025, China
A R T I C L E I N F O A B S T R A C T
Keywords: Satellite image time series (SITS), such as Sentinel-2 imagery, plays a crucial role in the delineation of agri-
Agricultural field delineation cultural fields by reducing the impacts of ambiguities due to the spatial arrangement of field boundaries. Existing
Satellite image time series delineate field parcel models rely extensively on spatial features derived from single-date imagery. However,
Convolutional neural network
several studies have exploited the potential of SITS to effectively tackle the complexities associated with the
Multi-task learning
intrinsic consistency between agricultural fields and their boundaries. This paper proposes a novel Two-Stream
Attention mechanism
Attention convolutional neural network (TSANet) to capture the subtle difference between agricultural fields
from SITS. Specifically, a field temporal semantic stream is introduced to adaptively leverage the significance of
spatial-spectral-temporal feature representation associated with the location of agricultural parcels, especially
where transitions in crop types take place. Considering the consistency between field parcels and their bound-
aries, we developed a field boundary prediction stream to enhance the extraction of edge features, particularly
for the extraction of small and irregular agricultural parcels. Moreover, a field parcel refining block is employed
to further enhance the geometric accuracy of agricultural fields. We conducted experiments on Sentinel-2 images
from the Netherlands. Results showed that our approach produced a better layout of agricultural fields, with an
average F1-score of 0.91 than the existing 3D-UNet, U-TEA, and BiConvLSTM. In addition, through the analysis
of both quantitative and qualitative results, the stronger robustness of the model compared to other algorithms
has been verified by temporal transfer and large-scale spatial prediction. We compared the difference between
SITS and the corresponding composite images, which further verified the influence of temporal variation on the
proposed approach. This paper provides a general guide for delineating agricultural parcels using SITS.
1. Introduction sensing community provides the geographic and temporal coverage as
well as spectral characteristics to delineate the agricultural field. The
The adoption of precision agricultural management has been on the challenge is to exploit this resource and develop effective and robust
rise as a means to alleviate food security issues. In particular, the precise models that accurately monitor agricultural parcels, thereby promoting
size, location, and boundaries of agricultural fields are essential pre- broader adoption of digital agricultural services.
requisites for digital agricultural services aimed at assisting farmers in While the remote sensing community has significantly improved its
monitoring crops (Sitokonstantinou et al., 2018; Sun et al., 2020). The ability to depict land use changes, designing models with strong
agricultural field is defined as the location where a transition in crop generalization abilities poses challenges for the delineation of agricul-
type occurs or a natural disruption could be seen between two similar tural fields at the parcel level. Part of the challenge stems from the
crops (Graesser and Ramankutty, 2017). Conventionally, delineating the sensitivity of conventional edge-based models to image noise, as they
agricultural fields requires manual interpretation and ground surveys, rely on detecting variations in pixel values (Hong et al., 2021). Thus,
which are labor-intensive and time-consuming. Fortunately, the remote image post-processing is essential to address the problem. For example,
* Corresponding author at: College of Land Science and Technology, China Agricultural University, Beijing 100193, China.
E-mail address: yxc@cau.edu.cn (X. Yao).
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compag.2024.108902
Received 7 September 2023; Received in revised form 15 March 2024; Accepted 29 March 2024
Availableonline9April2024
0168-1699/©2024ElsevierB.V.Allrightsreserved.
S. Yan et al. C o m p u t e r s a n d E l e c t r o n i c s i n A g r i c u l t u r e 220(2024)108902
(Rydberg and Borgefors, 1999) utilized a weighted edge direction histogram equalization approach to depict agricultural parcels.
approach to enhance edge information while reducing noise. However, Recently, the authors utilized object-based image analysis methodology
the method did not yield closed agricultural boundaries. (Turker and in combination with watershed segmentation from multi-temporal
Kok, 2013) used the Canny edge detector with the Gestalt laws to extract Sentinel-2 imagery (Watkins and Van Niekerk, 2019). Another study
the field boundaries from single-date imagery in Turkey. Unlike edge- illustrated the potential for agricultural field delineation from SITS using
based models, regional homogeneity can offer valuable spatial and deep learning models. Their strategy involved the utilization of a UNet
shape insights into the structure and morphology of agricultural fields. in conjunction with composite imagery to capture the spatio-temporal
These features are used in combination with linear regression to delin- characteristics of field parcels. This approach effectively mitigated the
eate agricultural fields (Cai et al., 2022). Similar to work, (Butenuth impact of noise on a per-pixel level. (Aung et al., 2020). Further work in
et al., 2004) performed the water segmentation with line extraction to both (Rustowicz et al., 2019) and (Martinez et al., 2021) employed 3D-
estimate field sizes from aerial imagery. While such outcomes are UNet and ConvLSTM to explore the performance of multi-dimensional
somewhat anticipated in agricultural fields, these results may not align convolutional models for crop parcel mapping. An unresolved chal-
well with practical application requirements. Since these approaches lenge pertains to the fact that current methods have not fully exploited
rely on hand-crafted features and prior knowledge through feature en- the potential of SITS to effectively address the complexities associated
gineering, their performance is generally limited to specific research with crop phenology. This limitation leads to fragmented parcels. Pre-
regions. Accordingly, the generalization ability of these approaches is vious studies have introduced a U-TAE model, incorporating temporal
constrained when applied to delineating agricultural fields in unfamiliar attention as an additional strategy (Garnot et al., 2020). However, these
scenarios (Belgiu and Csillik, 2018; Li et al., 2022). studies mainly extract spatial–temporal information, neglecting the
In contrast to traditional agricultural field delineation models that integration of spatial, spectral, and temporal attributes of agricultural
rely on substantial prior knowledge, deep learning-based models exhibit parcels throughout the crop phenology, as well as the intrinsic consis-
remarkable performance by automatically capturing spatially high-level tency between the agricultural fields and their boundaries.
features. For instance, (Masoud et al., 2020) employed a fully con- This paper aims to develop a novel Two-Stream Attention convolu-
volutional network (FCN) with a multiple dilation strategy to infer tional neural network (TSANet) for agricultural field delineation from
agricultural fields at 5 m resolution in the Netherlands from Sentinel-2 SITS to address the abovementioned challenges. We introduce a field
imagery. Further work in (Jong et al., 2022) utilized a ResUNet model temporal semantic stream to capitalize on the significance of spatial-
as a generator embedded in the traditional generative adversarial spectral-temporal features related to the location of agricultural par-
network to enhance the capacity for capturing detailed information cels, especially where transitions in crop types take place. A field
about agricultural fields. However, employing FCN-based models to boundary prediction stream is designed to enhance the extraction of
extract agricultural fields from smallholder farms remains a challenging edge features, specifically focusing on edge information pertaining to
task due to the diversity of field sizes and irregular shapes. To address field parcels. Then, a field parcel refining block is employed to further
this, (Persello et al., 2019) utilized in combination with globalization enhance the geometric accuracy of agricultural fields. This is achieved
and grouping algorithm to learn the hierarchy features of the field parcel by mutually incorporating both semantic and boundary features in a
in Europe. (Wagner and Oppelt, 2020) applied a multilayer perceptron complementary manner. The experiments show that this framework
neural network that integrates graph-based growing contours to significantly boosts performance when depicting field parcels, and can
enhance the performance of agricultural field delineation. Instead of be employed in real-world applications.
hybrid algorithms, the emergence of multi-branch networks has
enhanced the accuracy of models for agricultural parcel delineation. 2. Data and study site
(Waldner and Diakogiannis, 2020) introduced a multi-branch model
that derived field semantic results by using the boundaries of agricul- 2.1. Study site
tural plots. Similar to this, (Long et al., 2022) inferred agricultural fields
via outputting mask, boundary, and distance maps simultaneously from The study site is located across the central part of the Netherlands,
feature maps. broadly defined as longitude 4◦26′42″ to 6◦8′32″ east and latitude
Nevertheless, an unresolved challenge lies in the fact that parcels 51◦21′10″ to 53◦12′8″ north. Whereas the Netherlands is a major global
extracted by current models often exhibit incomplete boundaries due to agricultural producer, the research area exhibits relatively considerable
their disregard for the intrinsic consistency between agricultural fields differences in agricultural field sizes and fragmentation, where crops
and their boundaries. Moreover, existing deep learning-based models dominate the landscape in a mixed pattern (Brink and Molema, 2008;
heavily depend on spatial features derived from single-date data to Stanczuk-Galwiaczek et al., 2018). More detailed information on the
delineate field parcels. This factor contributes to ambiguities arising study site is depicted in Fig. 1. The study area encompasses 23,000 km2
from the phenological stage and the spatial arrangement of field and approximately 98,000 agricultural parcels, which span across the
boundaries (e.g., irrigation ditches, tracks, roads, trees, and shrubs) in major grain-producing area. The agricultural fields range in size from
single-date imagery. Further, the location where a transition in crop type 0.01 ha to 74.54 ha, with a median size of 2.5 ha. Influenced by a
occurs may be omitted (e.g., due to shadows, clouds, and atmospheric temperate oceanic climate, the annual precipitation varies between 750
contamination) (Graesser and Ramankutty, 2017; Yan and Roy, 2014). and 850 mm and is frequent throughout the year, which coincides with
Consequently, these models struggle to spectrally distinguish agricul- the growing seasons. The Netherlands’ average annual temperature is
tural field interiors, leading to limited generalization capabilities. This 9.3 ◦C; the coldest month is January, with an average monthly tem-
challenge is exacerbated when adjacent agricultural fields are cultivated perature of 2.3 ◦C, while the hottest month is July, with an average
with the same crop type. Hence, the utilization of multi-temporal images monthly temperature of 17.7 ◦C (Gella et al., 2021).
throughout the growing season becomes imperative to precisely identify
spatial transitions between distinct crop types, including crops of the 2.2. Satellite data and auxiliary data
same type.
The limitations of the aforementioned approaches underscore the In this study, Sentinel-2 imagery is selected due to the 5-day revisit
need for a solution that incorporates satellite image time series (SITS) to period, which provides consistent multi-temporal information on field
provide estimations for individual agricultural fields. (Roy et al., 2010) parcels. Additionally, its 10-m resolution is adequate for resolving the
employed temporal Landsat imagery to extract individual fields and majority of field parcels within the Netherlands.
produced the first large-scale agricultural parcel distribution results. The time series of Sentinel-2 scenes is provided by the French
(Graesser and Ramankutty, 2017) developed a novel multi-scale interagency Theia Land Data Centre (https://www.theia-land.
2
S. Yan et al. C o m p u t e r s a n d E l e c t r o n i c s i n A g r i c u l t u r e 220(2024)108902
Fig. 1. Overview of the research location for: Location map within the Netherlands (left), imagery of the example area overlaid with geographical split used for 5-
fold cross-validation (center), a sample of ancillary data for the field parcel (bottom right), and a distribution of field sizes (field parcels >10 ha are pooled into one
bin for visualization).
fr/en/homepage-en/). They have conducted multi-sensor atmospheric infrared wavelengths. It’s worth noting that incorporating additional
correction and cloud screening for this investigation. We gathered a total spectral bands did not yield a substantial improvement in performance
of 103 Sentinel-2 scenes covering the study site during the years 2019 but did increase computational costs (Turkoglu et al., 2021).
and 2020. These scenes were carefully selected to remove 75 % or more The Netherlands’ Basic Registration of Crop Plots (BRP) was utilized
of the cloud cover. The coverage period extends from January 1st to as reference data for training and validation. All field parcels in the
December 30th each year, encompassing the entire agricultural growth Agricultural Area Netherlands (ANN) were recorded using the BRP re-
season of major crops in the Netherlands (Gella et al., 2021). Each image cords in the form of polygons, providing information on their location,
consisted of four spectral bands, including the blue, green, red, and near- size, and attributions. ANN is constructed using 25 cm high-resolution
Fig. 2. Example sampled images of the dataset. Each row indicates sampled images from Sentinel-2 time series imagery (false color composite: NIR-Red-Green). The
last two columns indicate the ground truth of agricultural parcels and its of parcel boundaries. In these columns, the white signifies missing data at specific
time points.
3
S. Yan et al. C o m p u t e r s a n d E l e c t r o n i c s i n A g r i c u l t u r e 220(2024)108902
satellite images. The BRP is updated annually through reports from the any patches with cloud cover in order to evaluate the robustness of the
farmers, and it is known for its high quality. The BRP can be made model to interference and uncertainty. Out of the total available
available via the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Climate Policy (https sampled images, a random selection of 2,510 patches, which constitutes
://geodata.nationaalgeoregister.nl/brpgewaspercelen/atom/brpge 20 %, was chosen for model training and validation. Additionally, 500
waspercelen.xml). patches were randomly selected from the remaining patches and
designated as the test set. After that, these chosen trained and validated
sample images were randomly subdivided into 5 splits in order to
2.3. Data preprocessing
perform 5-fold cross-validation (see Fig. 1). Finally, to mitigate the
impact of degenerate scenarios in which field parcel sizes were too small
There were three preprocessing steps to generate the dataset for
compared to the resolution of Sentinel-2 imagery, certain agricultural
training and evaluating the proposed model. First, all Sentinel-2 time
parcels were excluded from the BRP based on geometrical criteria
series images were stacked in temporal order, forming a four-
(Garnot et al., 2021). These parcels were annotated with a background
dimensional multi-spectral data: T×C×H×W, with T the length of
label. As a result, two ground truth layers were generated and rasterized
the time series covering the entire agricultural growth season of major
at a 10-meter resolution to match Sentinel-2 imagery using ArcGIS
crops in the research site, C the spectral bands of the satellite imagery,
software. These layers included a binary layer of the extent of agricul-
and H,W the spatial extent of the satellite imagery. Second, due to
tural parcels as a field semantic label and a binary layer of parcel
limited GPU memory, these multi-spectral data were partitioned into a
boundaries as a field boundary label. Thus, the dataset contained sample
series of smaller sampled images at the spatial dimension, each sized at
images and ground truth data of theirs corresponding area.
128 ×128 pixels, yielding a total of about 12,000 patches (seen Fig. 2).
Significantly, the cloud detection approach was not utilized to discard
Fig. 3. The overview architecture of the proposed TSANet. (a) is the conceptual illustration of TSANet. (b) is the detailed design of TSANet. (21,4,128,128) cor-
responds to the sampled image dimensions represented as (T×C×H×W).
4
S. Yan et al. C o m p u t e r s a n d E l e c t r o n i c s i n A g r i c u l t u r e 220(2024)108902
3. Methodology 2D convolutional layer. To operate on specific dimension within the
SSTA block, feature maps outside the SSTA block are represented in a 4D
3.1. Overall framework (N×T,C,H,W) format, with N the batch size, T the length of the time
series, C the channels, and H,W the spatial extent. The input feature
Fig. 3 illustrates the workflow of our model for agricultural parcel maps are transposed to a 5D format (N,T,C,H,W) to facilitate processing
delineation from SITS. Firstly, the field temporal semantic stream cap- within the SSTA. The approach can capture the variations in spatial-
tures the semantic field parcels by adaptively learning spatial-spectral- spectral features over time during the agricultural field’s vegetation
temporal correlations from SITS to enhance the identification of agri- growth cycle.
cultural parcels. It generates coarse field semantic features. Secondly, To effectively learn spatial-spectral-temporal features, the SSTA
designed EDC modules within the field parcel boundary stream decouple block consisted of two branches, as depicted in Fig. 4 (a). Each branch is
hierarchical field boundary features from high-level characteristics in designed to capture either spatial–temporal or spectral-temporal infor-
the first four layers of the SSTA module within the semantic stream. This mation. One of the branches is a spatial–temporal attention module. It
process aims to improve the morphology of field parcels and generate a leverages the intrinsic correlation between spatial and temporal features
field boundary map. Finally, we introduced a field parcel refining block to capture the location information of a[gricultural parcels. Specifi]cally,
to produce a refined field parcel map by aggregating the coarse field input feature maps, denoted as V = v1,1,1,v1,1,2,vi,j,k,⋯,vT,H,W , are
semantic features from the field temporal semantic stream and boundary squeezed by channel maximal pooling and channel average pooling
features from the field parcel boundary stream. To improve the learning operations to distill spectral feature representation. Here, vi,j,k∈RC
ability of the model concerning agricultural parcels and their bound- represents the spectral feature at the temporal and spatial location. This
aries, we introduce a joint loss function that incorporates both seg- process generates the spatio-temporal descriptors qmp ,qap ∈R1×T×H×W.
mentation loss Lseg and boundary loss Ledg for optimization. In the
Next, recalibration weights are generated to assign weights to input
following section, the implementation details about the architecture of
features in the spatio-temporal domain. The recalibration weights are
TSANet are first explained. We then describe joint loss functions.
obtained by
3.1.1. Field temporal semantic stream ̂q mp =W 1*q mp (1)
Due to abundant spatial-spectral-temporal information, SITS can
reflect the various characteristics of agricultural parcels. Previous ̂q ap =W 2*q ap (2)
studies have shown that a 3D convolutional backbone can delineate field where W1 ,W2 are the 3D convolution layers with kernel size 3 ×3 ×
parcels from SITS. However, it is challenging to capture the evolving 3. Thus, the spatial–temporal attention module is acquired as
spatial-spectral characteristics of agricultural parcel’s crops over time. [( ( ) )) ( ( )
Additionally, 3D convolutional structure inevitably increases conver- V̂ = σ ̂q1,1,1 +σ(̂q1,1,1 v1,1,1, σ ̂q1,1,2
SpaT mp ap mp
gence difficulty and computational requirements (Wang et al., 2021). ) ( ( ) )) ]
To alleviate these challenges, the field temporal semantic stream is +σ(̂q1 a , p 1,2 )v1,1,2,⋯, σ ̂qT m , p H,W +σ(̂qT ap ,H,W vT,H,W (3)
designed, which comprising a seven 2D convolutional layer architec-
ture, to robustly extract semantic features from SITS. Simultaneously, a where σ(•)denotes the sigmoid function for normalization.
spatial-spectral-temporal attention (SSTA) block is embedded after the The other branch in SSTA block is spectral-temporal attention
Fig. 4. An illustration of various components within TSANet. GAP represents global average pooling, CMP represents channel maximal pooling, and CAP represent
channel average pooling.
5
S. Yan et al. C o m p u t e r s a n d E l e c t r o n i c s i n A g r i c u l t u r e 220(2024)108902
module to mine the significance of both spectral and temporal charac- value. To generate the boundary feature map, we apply a convolution
teristics evolution of a[gricultural fields. Sp]ecifically, we compress input layer with 3 ×3 kernel sizes to the pixel differences obtained from these
feature maps V= v1,1 ,v1,2 ,vi,j ,⋯,vT,C ∈RT×C×H×W using global pairs by element-wise multiplication, followed by summation (see to
average pooling, obtaining the spectral-temporal descriptor z∈RT×C. Equation (1) in the Appendix). Similar theory in central difference
Here, vi,j
∈RH×W
represents the spectral and temporal variety of spatial
convolution, circular LBP and radial LBP operators are simulated to
obtain circular difference convolution and radial difference convolution
features. Subsequently, a bottleneck structure with kernel weights W3 ∈
(see to Equations (2) and (3) in the Appendix). Furthermore, the
RC/4×C
and W4
∈RC×C/4
is employed to parameterize the gate mecha-
above three various difference convolution layers are combined into the
nism. This is followed by a Rectified Linear Unit (ReLU) function δ(•).
EDC module. A concatenation strategy is used to integrate the output
Notably, we insert a 1D convolution layer WCT
∈RC/4×C/4×3
between feature maps from these operators into the channel dimension. This is
these 2D convolutional layers. This layer is intended to capture the in- followed by two convolutional layers with kernel sizes of 1 ×1 and 3 ×
terdependencies between spectral and temporal characteristics. It gen- 3, aiming to enhance the ability to represent boundary features.
erates weights as s for input features in both spectral and temporal
domains, where 3.1.3. Field parcel refining block
s=W 4*δ(W CT*δ(W 3*z)) (4) Considering that boundary features involve the morphological
characteristics of the field parcel, incorporating these features from the
The spectral-temporal map is then activated using the sigmoid field boundary stream can enhance the performance of agricultural
function. Thus, the spectral-temporal module is defined as parcel delineation, particularly when the parcel’s shape appears blurred
[ (cid:0) ) ]
V̂ SpreT = σ(s 1 )v 1 ,σ(s 2 )v 2 ,⋯,σ(s i )v i ⋯,σ s j v j (5) or irregular in the imagery. Hence, a field parcel refining block is
designed in TSANet to merge field semantic and boundary features,
Furthermore, the above two blocks are integrated has a similar yielding refined field parcel feature maps. Unlike traditional feature
strategy to that of DANet by the element-wise summation (Fu et al., fusion methods that rely on simple operations like summation and
2019; Park et al., 2018). Additionally, a convolution layer W5 with concatenation at the pixel level for various feature maps, the field parcel
kernel size 1 ×1 is used to adjust the weight of various type of features, refining block captures discriminative features while eliminating irrel-
and further distill features. V ̂ ssta is the final output feature map, where evant ones.
(cid:0) (cid:0) )) As depicted in Fig. 4 (c), the field parcel refining block takes the
V̂ ssta =δ W 5* V̂ SpaT +V̂ SpreT (6) agricultural parcel semantic feature maps F and the field boundary maps
̂
Fboundary as the input. It then produces a refined field parcel map F. Thus,
3.1.2. Field parcel boundary stream the agricultural parcel semantic feature maps can be decoupled into an
To effectively extract agricultural parcel boundary characteristics, agricultural parcel body feature map Fbody, which represents the main
the field parcel boundary stream is developed to learn the multi-level body of the field parcel without including its boundary, and an boundary
edge features. A key distinction from conventional shape streams is feature map Fboundary, namely, F =Fbody +Fboundary. Our goal is to optimal
the utilization of a lightweight-temporal attention encoder. This encoder ̂
these two type feature maps and derive a refined field parcel map F. The
collapses the temporal dimension of feature maps from the field tem- field boundary prediction stream ϕ(•)is used to acquire the Fboundary,
poral semantic stream, enhancing the spatial representation ability of
field parcels (Garnot et al., 2020; Xu et al., 2022). Additionally, while
and then Fbody can be obtained by explicitly subtracting the Fboundary,
CNNs can learn richer feature representations than models based on
where Fboundary =ϕ(F) and Fbody = F(cid:0) Fboundary. Thus, the refined field
parcel map can be shown as Equation (9). The Atrous Spatial Pyramid
traditional handcrafted operators, focusing on edge-related features is
Pooling (ASPP) layer φ(•)is applied to emphasize the difference be-
challenging due to the lack of explicit encoding for gradient computa-
tween the agricultural parcel semantic feature map and the boundary
tion (Sun et al., 2020). Thus, we introduced an edge difference convo-
feature map on contextual scales. Subsequently, the output feature map
lution (EDC) module based on convolution layers to capture the image
of the ASPP is added with the boundary feature, and a 3 ×3 convolu-
gradient information and facilitate edge feature extraction.
tional layer is applied to incorporate additional fine-details information
The architecture of the EDC module is illustrated in Fig. 4 (b). We
that might have been missing. This approach effectively leverages the
employ three different types of convolution layers to capture rich
complementary information between the agricultural parcel semantic
gradient information, namely a central difference convolution, a circular
feature map and the boundary map, leading to an enhancement in the
difference convolution, and a radial difference convolution. The oper-
performance of agricultural parcel delineation.
ation of these convolution layers is similar to that of the vanilla
(cid:0) ) (cid:0) )
convolution layer. During the convolutional layer operation, the pixel F̂=φ F body +ϕ(F)=φ F(cid:0) F boundary +F boundary (9)
differences replace the original values in the local feature map patches
covered by the convolution kernel. Hence, the formulas of vanilla
convolution and difference convolution layers can be expressed as: 3.2. Joint loss function
∑
y=f(x,θ)= w i •x i (7) With the utilization of SITS, the proposed TSANet model generates
i=1 ̂
∑
two results, including the refined field parcel result Ssfield as the final
y=f(∇x,θ)= w i •(x i (cid:0) x′ i ) (8) field parcel prod ̂ uct for field parcel delineation and the field parcel
(xi,x′
i
)∈P boundary result Sbfield as an auxiliary result for extracting edge infor-
mation. These results can be optimized under a joint loss function that
′
where xi and x i are the input values from the local feature map patch, contains segmentation loss Lseg and boundary loss Lbdy. Thus, the total
wi is the convolution kernel. P is the local feature map patch. loss L is calculated as
Given the resemblance between vanilla convolution and difference (cid:0) ) (cid:0) )
convolution layers, it is feasible to make modifications to simulate the L=β×L seg S sfield ,̂S sfield +L edge S bfield ,̂S bfield (10)
local binary pattern (LBP) operator, such as a central local binary
pattern operator. Specifically, the 8 pairs in the center direction within where Ssfield represents the field parcel semantic label, and Sbfield is the
the 3 ×3 local feature map are defined by calculating the differences field parcel boundary label, β is a weight to balance the segmentation
between the current neighbor feature value and the current feature loss and boundary loss. The influence on the β for agricultural parcel
delineation will be explored in Section 5.1.2.
6
S. Yan et al. C o m p u t e r s a n d E l e c t r o n i c s i n A g r i c u l t u r e 220(2024)108902
It should be noted that to make the optimization easier for the Lseg reference pixels. The equations for these metrics are as follows.
and Ledge part, the Tanimoto distance with complements is used, which F1=2*Precision*Recall/(Precision+Recall) (13)
can achieve faster convergence than other loss functions and maintain a
good balance across multi-tasks (Diakogiannis et al., 2020). The for- IoU=TP/(TP+FP+FN) (14)
mulations are shown in Equation (11) and (12).
l(S,̂S)=(T(S,̂S)+T(1(cid:0) S,1(cid:0) ̂S))/2 (11) MCC=(TP× / TN √ (cid:0) ̅̅̅̅ F ̅̅̅ P ̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅
/( ) ×FN) (TP+FP)×(TP+FN)×(TN+FP)×(TN+FN)
∑ ∑(cid:0) ) ∑
T(S,̂S)= s i ̂s i s i 2+̂s i 2 (cid:0) s i ̂s i (12) (15)
i i i
where TP, FP, FN, and TN are the is true positive, false positive, true
where si and ̂si is the predicted posterior probability of refined field negative, false negative.
The second one is object-level metrics, which define the shape of
parcel results or the field boundary results for the i th pixel.
individual agricultural fields by collectively capturing differences be-
tween the extracted fields and reference fields, including the over-
4. Experiments
segmentation rate (Sover), the under-segmentation rate (Sunder) and the
union-segmentation rate (Sunion).These metrics represent the outliers of
In this research, several experiments were conducted to evaluate the
the commission, omission and overall combined errors of the individual
effectiveness of the proposed method using SITS data in delineating
field parcels (Persello and Bruzzone, 2010).
agricultural fields. First, ablation research was conducted to evaluate the
significance of the proposed components within TSANet. Next, the S over =(1(cid:0) |T i ∩E i |/|T i |)×100% (16)
performance of the proposed model was validated by comparing it to
several conventional cropland mapping models. Finally, a series of ex- S under =(1(cid:0) |T i ∩E i |/|E i |)×100% (17)
periments were used to validate the generalization capability of our √̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅
(cid:0) )/
approach. Notably, we evaluated the capability of the model with S union = S2 over +S2 under 2 (18)
respect to spatial variation, other temporal SITS, and single composite
imagery. The aim of this study was to provide valuable supplementary where Ei represents each the mapped of field parcels and Ti denotes
information for large-scale agricultural field delineation with deep the corresponding reference fields. |•|is an operator that calculates the
learning. area of agricultural parcel from E or T, and ∩denotes the intersection
operator.
4.1. Ablation study
4.2. Comparison with other CNN models
4.1.1. Model training
To validate the agricultural field delineation performance of the
In the TSANet, the field temporal semantic stream was designed to
proposed TSANet model, we conducted a qualitative and quantitative
learn spatial-spectral-temporal features of agricultural fields from SITS,
comparison with four state-of-the-art CNN models. These comparative
the field boundary prediction stream focused on separating boundary-
CNN methods are 3D-UNet (M Rustowicz et al., 2019), ConvLSTM (M
related features from high-level information, and the field parcel
Rustowicz et al., 2019), BiConvLSTM (Martinez et al., 2021), and U-TAE
refining block integrated the deep semantic features and the shadow
(Garnot and Landrieu, 2021). Among these methods, 3D-UNet and U-
boundary features to optimize the coarse field parcel delineation results.
TAE are based on the UNet architecture. The U-shaped design of the
To investigate the impact of these carefully designed architectures on
Unet architecture is employed to capture spatial low-level and high-level
agricultural field delineation accuracy, we performed experiments with
features and alleviate information loss. Specifically, the 3D-UNet model
various configurations. Specifically, a baseline model was established by
incorporated three-dimensional convolution layers to simultaneously
removing SSTA from the field temporal semantic stream, the field
process spatial-spectral-temporal features, while U-TAE introduced a
boundary prediction stream, and the field parcel refining block within
temporal mechanism to model the spatio-temporal context. Conversely,
TSANet. Then, we added SSTA, the field boundary prediction stream,
the ConvLSTM and BiConvLSTM models are built upon the Long Short-
and the field parcel refining block to the baseline model to progressively
Term Memory (LSTM) baseline approach. These models are specifically
evaluate their performance. The models underwent training for 100
engineered to capture long term dependencies and patterns from time-
epochs using a batch size of 4, a learning rate of 0.001, and a weight
decay of 10(cid:0)4 on a server running Ubuntu 16.04, equipped with two series data. To extract spatial features, the ConvLSTM was developed
by replacing all linear layers with two-dimensional convolution layers.
NVIDIA GTX 2080Ti graphic processing units (GPUs). In addition, we
Furthermore, the BiConvLSTM employed two bidirectional LSTM cells
utilized the Adam optimizer to compute adaptive learning rates, facili-
to enhance its ability to learn temporal characteristics. Simultaneously,
tating faster convergence during training. The training process for
to ensure a fair comparison, all CNN models were implemented within
TSANet took about 44.6 h. It took 19 s to infer agricultural fields from
the same experiment environment described in Section 4.1.1.
one-fold.
4.1.2. Evaluation metrics 4.3. Generalization capability evaluation
The evaluation of agricultural fields delineation models involved the
use of two type of metrics: pixel-level metrics and object-level metrics. The previous experimental design analyzed the effectiveness of the
The first type of evaluation indicator is pixel-level metrics, which reflect TSANet architecture for agricultural field delineation from SITS. Addi-
the proportion of predicted field parcel pixels among all predict pixels, tionally, a series of experiments was conducted to evaluate the model’s
including F1 score (F1), intersection over union (IoU), and Matthews capability to generalize in various scenarios, including large coverage
Correlation Coefficient (MCC) (Boughorbel et al., 2017). The F1 is the areas (Section 4.3.1), temporal Sentinel-2 imagery acquired across time
harmonic mean of precision and recall. The IoU is the ratio of the (Section 4.3.2), and single composite imagery (Section 4.3.3).
intersection of the predicted agricultural parcel and the reference field
parcel pixel to their union. MCC is a comprehensive indicator that 4.3.1. Evaluation of spatial generalization ability
consider the overall difference between predicted pixels and the One of the fundamental challenges in large-area agricultural field
7
S. Yan et al. C o m p u t e r s a n d E l e c t r o n i c s i n A g r i c u l t u r e 220(2024)108902
delineation is spatial generalization ability. Due to the expense and time 5. Results
required for acquiring reference labels, the training data available for
model training is limited in reality. Consequently, models trained with 5.1. Ablation study
limited data struggle to accurately generalize spatial characteristics
across extensive areas, leading to less accurate predictions for large- 5.1.1. The effectiveness of the proposed architecture
scale agricultural fields. To investigate the spatial generalization of To verify the effectiveness of the various parts of the TSANet, we
the proposed TSANet model, we randomly chose 20 % of the patches for conducted ablation experiments by training four versions of the model,
training and validation of the agricultural parcel delineation models. We each with variations in its architecture, respectively. Fig. 5 displays the
then evaluated the model’s performance in extracting field parcels valid accuracy curves during the training process, which evaluated the
across the entire study site. convergence performance of the different models. It is obvious that
adding the field temporal semantic stream and field boundary prediction
4.3.2. Evaluation of generalization capability across time stream leads to an improvement in the valid MCC accuracy during the
Given the significance of leveraging temporal distribution prior to training process. After combining all three modules, the valid MCC ac-
SITS for agricultural field delineation, the other fundamental issue in curacy curves of TSANet show smaller fluctuations and achieve the
large-scale agricultural parcel delineation is ensuring the model’s tem- highest accuracy (MCC =0.8934). This demonstrates that the proposed
poral transferability. Generally speaking, annual environmental varia- model has high convergence efficiency and stability throughout the
tions, such as crop rotation and abandoned cropland, can impact the training process. Moreover, the valid loss cures and valid accuracy
agricultural field delineation results when the model is applied to pre- curves started to reach their minimum and maximum values, respec-
dict unseen data, which means using a trained agricultural field model tively, and appeared to stabilize after 84 epochs. Hence, we hypothesize
derived from a specific time period to predict other periods efficiently. that the models trained for more than 100 epochs had effectively learned
To evaluate the temporal transferability of the TSANet model, we the characteristics of agricultural parcels.
trained the proposed model using Sentinel-2 image time series from To better represent the performance for the different models, some
2019 to delineate agricultural fields in 2020. We investigated changes in typical visual results on the test set are shown in Fig. 6. As shown in
field parcel accuracy, especially when variations in the morphology of Fig. 6, the field temporal semantic stream enhances the model’s ability
the field parcel and land use type occurred. to distinguish agricultural fields from the background, the field bound-
ary prediction stream refines the boundaries of field parcels, and the
4.3.3. Evaluation of generalization capability of single composite imagery field parcel refining block constrains the morphological characteristics
Agricultural fields during the phenological period are closely linked of field parcels. With the spatial-spectral-temporal features learned,
to the spatial, spectral, and temporal information presented in satellite these models are capable of correctly identifying areas in Region 1
imagery. Therefore, SITS play a crucial role in influencing the effec- (highlighted by the red box) where the background exhibits spectral
tiveness of agricultural field delineation approaches. However, a com- similarities with agricultural parcels. The agricultural fields, marked
mon strategy for extracting agricultural fields involves substituting SITS with the red boxes in Region 2, showcase the extraction of the spatial
with a single composite image. This composite image is generated based patterns of the agricultural fields. The field boundary prediction stream
on the corresponding temporal span by the SITS data. Consequently, this processes the shape information of field parcels, resulting in sharper
strategy encourages the agricultural parcel delineation model to prior- predictions. Region 3 in Fig. 6 marks with the red boxes illustrate that
itize the spatial characteristics of field parcels, thereby alleviating the field delineation results are further refined and the over-
computational demands. Therefore, it is crucial to assess the perfor- segmentation error is alleviated by the field parcel refining block to
mance of TSANet when applied to single composite imagery. As quar- integrate agricultural field semantic features with field boundary
terly temporal characteristics are typically crucial for crop classification features.
and agricultural parcel extraction (Nicolau et al., 2021; Rufin et al., Furthermore, we quantitatively compare the results of these different
2019), this paper leveraged quarterly composite imagery. These com- models on the test set. The quantitative experiment results in Table 1
posites incorporate spectral-temporal information from all days within demonstrate that, compared to baseline, the incorporation of the field
the respective quarter and were employed to distinguish individual field temporal semantic stream, the field boundary prediction stream, and the
parcels. field parcel refining block results in improved accuracy. The MCC scores
improve by 9.86 % after introducing the field temporal semantic stream
to the baseline architecture. This indicates the enhanced effectiveness of
establishing relationships between spatial, spectral, and temporal
Fig. 5. The evolution of the (a) valid loss function, and (b) valid MCC accuracy curves during training process of different models. “Base” stands for baseline, “S”
denotes the SSTA module, and “Boun” represents the field boundary prediction stream.
8
S. Yan et al. C o m p u t e r s a n d E l e c t r o n i c s i n A g r i c u l t u r e 220(2024)108902
Fig. 6. The influence of the various parts designed in TSANet, where white represents the field parcel, black denotes the background, the gold color indicates mis-
classified pixel, and purple denotes the correct classification.
distribution. After adding the field boundary prediction stream, there is
Table 1
a notable improvement in the IoU of the field parcel delineation results,
Ablation study for various components in TSANet (Base, S, Boun, and Refining
showing an increase of 3.88 %. This implies that enforcing consistency
are short for baseline, SSTA module, field boundary prediction stream, and field
between semantic and edge characteristics improves the completeness
parcel refining block, respectively).
of mapping results. Conversely, the IoU score of the result increases
ID Method F1 IoU MCC slightly by 0.58 % after the introduction of the field parcel refining
Base S Boun Refining block. However, the MCC score still improves by 2.95 % after incorpo-
1 ✓ 0.852 0.775 0.720 rating the field parcel refining block, demonstrating that the fusion of
2 ✓ ✓ 0.886 0.825 0.791 semantic and boundary features can boost the production of refined field
3 ✓ ✓ ✓ 0.896 0.847 0.813 parcel segmentation results. Overall, the combination of the field tem-
4 ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ 0.916 0.862 0.837
poral semantic stream, the field boundary prediction stream, and the
field parcel refining block yields the highest accuracy. Thus, this TSANet
9
S. Yan et al. C o m p u t e r s a n d E l e c t r o n i c s i n A g r i c u l t u r e 220(2024)108902
is chosen for subsequent analyses. accurate parcel extraction. Thus, achieving precise delineations of size,
location, and borders remains a challenging task. Region 1 displays the
5.1.2. The influence of the joint loss function delineation results of the models on ribbon-shaped fields and small
The β is an important parameter as illustrated by the equation (10) in fields. These fields are narrow and intricate, making it challenging for
Section 3.2, which determines the consistency between semantic and human eyes to distinguish between field parcels and backgrounds. The
edge information of the agricultural parcel. Considering the influence of representative region is marked by red boxes. The predicted agricultural
edge characteristics on agricultural parcel extraction results, we set parcels from U-TAE exhibit irregular shapes, whereas the predicted field
weight parameter β values as [0, 0.1, 0.3, 0.5, 0.7,1] and evaluate the parcel results from TSANet achieve improved accuracy and complete-
performance of the objective function in delineating field parcels. The ness. Both the proposed model and U-TAE employ an attention mecha-
quantitative results are shown in Table 2. nism to learn temporal feature representations. The more complete field
As can be illustrated in Table 2, setting the weight parameter β to 0.1 parcel prediction results imply that TSANet has a robust capability for
results in TSANet achieving the highest pixel-level prediction for agri- delineating field parcel shapes.
cultural field delineation. Compared to the weight parameter β set to 0, Region 2 displays the scenario where five scenes in the Sentinel-2
where only the field boundary prediction stream infers both the field image time series are covered by clouds. U-shape-based models like
parcel body and edge characteristics, a β setting of 0.1 yields a 3.98 % 3D-UNet tend to have poor performance in extracting field parcels
improvement in boundary MCC score and a 1.76 % improvement in within the red-boxed region. In contrast, TSANet can accurately predict
boundary IoU score. Setting the weight parameter β to 0.1 indicates that the location of agricultural parcels. Moreover, the agricultural field
the proposed model can enhance the inner consistency between the prediction results marked in the green box by the proposed model are
semantic and boundary of the field parcel. This results in a remarkable smoother and have higher confidence than the results of the LSTM
45.17 % improvement in the prediction F1 score and an impressive architecture-based models. This weaker influence on the cloud illus-
71.37 % in prediction IoU score. The experiment results imply that the trates that TSANet considers the effect of interference within SITS when
effectiveness of joint loss function in improving agricultural parcel performing the agricultural parcel delineation.
delineation results. Nevertheless, the prediction and boundary results Region 3 shows the dense and low-contrast characteristics of agri-
for the field parcel decreased as β increased from 0.3 to 1.0. This illus- cultural parcels. For instance, the boundaries of adjacent field parcels
trates that the accuracy of agricultural parcel delineation decreases as within the red box are blurred, and these fields have irregular shapes,
the β parameter proportionally increases. The several representative which increases the difficulty of distinguishing individuals. U-TAE fails
results with the various proportions of β are shown in Fig. 7. to extract these irregular field parcels, leading to confusion between the
It can be seen from the red boxes marked in Fig. 7 that when the irregular fields and the background. In contrast, the proposed TSANet
weight parameter β is set to 0, there is a greater discrepancy between the model can accurately delineate the shape of the blurred agricultural
prediction and boundary results of agricultural parcel delineation. fields. The agricultural parcels predicted by ConvLSTM and
Furthermore, in comparison to the β setting of 0.1, the results with β set BiConvLSTM, which tend to over-segment the reference field parcel la-
to 0 are more likely to misclassify predicted fields as background. bels, also exhibit low accuracy when compared to the predictions made
Moreover, once the weight parameter exceeds 0.3, particularly for by our proposed model. Visual agricultural parcel delineation results
smaller agricultural fields, the results are less smooth. This observation demonstrate that TSANet is more reliable and effectively alleviates
suggests that the joint loss function drives the model to constrain se- environmental interference and spectral similarity issues. The quanti-
mantic information by boundary characteristics. Thus, when the weight tative results are shown in Table 3, and the relevant box plots are dis-
of the semantic features gradually increases, the constraining influence played in Fig. 9.
of the boundary features will be weakened. Hence, the weight parameter It can be seen from Table 3 that TSANet achieves the highest accu-
β is set as 0.1 for a trade-off between the shape and the accuracy of racy among all the deep learning algorithms. The MCC score of TSANet
agricultural parcels. is 24.22 % higher than that of the BiConvLSTM, 22.40 % higher than the
ConvLSTM, 9.74 % higher than the 3D-UNet, and 4.27 % higher than U-
TAE. The highest IoU among all agricultural parcel extraction algo-
5.2. Comparison with other CNN models
rithms is obtained via TSANet, which benefits from joint spatial-
spectral-temporal feature learning, and combined deep semantic fea-
Fig. 8 displays representative visual results of agricultural parcel
tures with shadow boundary features that embed in our proposed model
delineation on the test samples. Generally speaking, the first row of each
architecture. As shown in Fig. 8, the maximum score of the F1, IoU, and
sub-figure illustrates the image, label, and visual results; the second row
MCC of the U-TAE is 0.03 % higher than that of our TSANet. However,
depicts the differences between the predicted results and reference la-
the standard deviation of these metrics for TSANet is lower than that of
bels; and the last row indicates the model’s confidence in field parcel
U-TAE, indicating that there are more missed field parcels in the results
extraction by confidence map. The comparative CNN models employed
of comparative models. Experiments compared with other CNN models
for visual results include 3D-UNet, U-TAE, ConvLSTM, and
indicate that our proposed model has higher stability for extracting
BiConvLSTM.
agricultural parcels.
As illustrated in Fig. 8, the biggest challenge in agricultural parcel
delineation is that the similarity between the field parcels and other
5.3. Evaluation of spatial generalization ability
plots is strong, while complex environmental conditions further impede
The spatial and spectral heterogeneities between different crops
Table 2 within agricultural parcels are especially noteworthy due to the large-
Ablation study for various weight parameter β of the joint loss function. scale area. Moreover, field parcels during specific periods are covered
Metrics Value of β by clouds in the imagery, resulting in broken or blurred parcels. Both
issues make it a challenging task to delineate large-scale agricultural
0 0.1 0.3 0.5 0.7 1.0
parcels. Thus, we performed experiments over a large area to verify the
Prediction F1 0.631 0.916 0.913 0.911 0.913 0.909
spatial robustness of TSANet. Due to the large-scale nature of the entire
result IoU 0.503 0.862 0.857 0.854 0.857 0.848
MCC 0.280 0.837 0.831 0.825 0.83 0.818 study site, clearly showing the overview results of all models is an
Boundary F1 0.821 0.834 0.826 0.829 0.826 0.814 impossible task. Thus, Fig. 10 shows the visual results of our proposed
result IoU 0.737 0.750 0.742 0.743 0.741 0.725 model across the entire research area, with regional agricultural parcel
MCC 0.653 0.679 0.666 0.668 0.665 0.640
results highlighted within the red box. The visual comparison magnified
10
S. Yan et al. C o m p u t e r s a n d E l e c t r o n i c s i n A g r i c u l t u r e 220(2024)108902
Fig. 7. Visual agricultural parcel results produced by TSANet with various weight parameter β.
between TSANet and other CNN models at the study site will be analyzed the entire study site are illustrated in Table 4.
later in this section. It can be seen from Table 4 that TSANet obtains the highest pixel-
As shown in Fig. 10, TSANet has a good performance on agricultural level accuracy as compared to other state-of-art models. The Sunder of
fields over a large coverage area. Although there are spatial and spectral TSANet is 17.41 % higher than that of U-TAE, which tends to extract
discrepancies among various croplands in the Netherlands, our proposed spectral-similar surroundings as agricultural parcels, such as field paths
model effectively delineates the location and distribution of field par- or ditches. This results in obtaining a higher Sunder score than our TSA-
cels. To comprehensively evaluate the spatial generalization of TSANet, Net, as well as speckle noise in the results of U-TAE. However, there are
we selected several local regions in Fig. 10. Detailed comparisons are more false field parcels in the visual results of the U-TAE shown in
displayed in Fig. 11. Fig. 11. Hence, the Sover score of TSANet is 48.72 % lower than U-TAE,
The zoom-in results in Fig. 11 show that the dense distribution of 43.16 % lower than 3D-UNet, 35.77 % lower than ConvLSTM, and
field parcels in regions A to C poses the challenge of delineating clear 44.66 % lower than BiConvLSTM. Moreover, the agricultural field
boundaries between individual fields in SITS. The proposed model has delineation results produced by our proposed model exhibit more ac-
high completeness in extracting intensive fields, while the other four curate shapes, with TSANet achieving Sunion scores at least 9.07 % higher
models, as shown in rows four to seven, are unable to accurately extract than those of the other comparative models. This result demonstrates
integrated field parcels. that our method strikes a balance between over-segmentation and
Regions D to F show agricultural parcels with low-contrast back- under-segmentation in the extraction of agricultural parcels. The higher
grounds. The field parcels are similar to the surroundings in the image, pixel-level metrics and Sunion score across the entire study site verify that
making them challenging to identify. The comparative ConvLSTM and our proposed model has a stronger spatial generalization ability,
BiConvLSTM models incorrectly delineate the background as field par- enabling it to learn more comprehensive agricultural parcels compared
cels, whereas TSANet accurately distinguishes agricultural parcels from to other CNN models.
the surroundings, especially small-size fields. Moreover, the field shapes
extracted by TSANet exhibit greater regularity and smoothness 5.4. Evaluation of temporal transferability
compared to the other CNN models. The better performance of our
proposed model in visual agricultural field results, compared to the Experiments conducted on temporal transferability verify the tem-
comparative model, further verifies its potential applicability to large- poral generalization ability of TSANet. Agricultural parcel delineation is
scale agricultural parcel delineation tasks. The quantitative results for another challenging task due to the complex conditions and human
11
S. Yan et al. C o m p u t e r s a n d E l e c t r o n i c s i n A g r i c u l t u r e 220(2024)108902
Fig. 8. Visual results for three various samples, where white represents the field parcel, black denotes the background, the gold color indicates mis-classified pixel,
and purple denotes the correct classification.
activities, such as imagery occluded by clouds, crop rotation, and
Table 3
abandoned cropland, which can impact the accuracy of results. The vi-
Quantitative evaluation results of TSANet and other CNN models.
sual results on temporal transferability are presented in Fig. 12.
Metrics Models It can be seen from Fig. 12 that the agricultural parcel delineation
TSANet 3D-UNet U-TAE ConvLSTM BiConvLSTM results in 2020, produced through training TSANet in 2019, exhibit a
high visual consistency with land use changes. Regions A to C show the
F1 0.916 0.875 0.896 0.834 0.823
IoU 0.862 0.810 0.836 0.755 0.756 agricultural parcel delineation results, where dramatic differences in
MCC 0.837 0.763 0.803 0.684 0.674 spectral information and environmental interference exist between
12
S. Yan et al. C o m p u t e r s a n d E l e c t r o n i c s i n A g r i c u l t u r e 220(2024)108902
Fig. 9. Quantitative evaluation results regarding TSANet and other models with boxplots, where the green mark denotes the location of mean value, and the orange
line represents the median value of models.
Fig. 10. The results of agricultural field delineation by TSANet from the research site. The red boxes in subgraphs (a) and (b) represent the example area, and the
corresponding enlarge regions are depicted in subgraphs (c) to (d).
training time-series images and target time-series images. The field accuracy achieved by 3D-UNet in 2019, as indicated in Table 4. The
parcels delineated by TSANet have good performance, especially in re- results demonstrate that, although the agricultural parcel delineation
gions marked in red boxes where there are significant changes in land accuracies at the pixel level are invariant in relation to the time span
cover type. In other difficult agricultural parcel scenarios, such as a since the agricultural planting structure and clouds, TSANet still has
slight variation of spectral information between training images and good performance on temporal transferability. Moreover, the accuracies
target images in regions D to F, TSANet also achieves satisfactory visual at the object level are also obtained to further evaluate the variations of
performance. Since our TSANet considers the relationship between field parcels across time. The average Sover score of target images is 50.7
spatial and spectral characteristics of different crops over a temporal % higher than that of training images, while the average Sunder score of
domain, the high visual completeness of TSANet indicates that the target images is 1.43 % lower than training images, indicating that
model can be effectively applied in other periods as well. The quanti- TSANet obtains more over-segmentation errors than under-
tative results for temporal generalization ability evaluation are illus- segmentation errors across time. Hence, the average Sunion score of
trated in Fig. 13. target images is 17.1 % higher than training images. The accuracy of the
As can be seen from Fig. 13, the agricultural parcel accuracy at the proposed model decreases as temporal transferability because of the
pixel and object levels displays variations between training images and variability of spatial and spectral distribution prior along the temporal
target images. The average F1, IoU, and MCC scores of the target results domain. However, the performance of TSANet is greater than that of 3D-
surpass 0.86, 0.78, and 0.75, respectively, and are comparable to the UNet, ConvSLTM, and BiConvLSTM in almost all cases in 2019. This
13
S. Yan et al. C o m p u t e r s a n d E l e c t r o n i c s i n A g r i c u l t u r e 220(2024)108902
Fig. 11. The zoom-in results of agricultural parcel delineation in the research site.
result further illustrates that TSANet is more suitable to be applied in
Table 4 agricultural parcel related real-word. Thus, both the qualitative and
Quantitative evaluation agricultural parcel delineation results of TSANet and quantitative evaluations demonstrate the robust temporal generaliza-
other CNN models over the study area.
tion ability of TSANet in agricultural parcel delineation applications.
Metrics Models
TSANet 3D- U- ConvLSTM BiConvLSTM
UNet TAE 5.5. Evaluation of generalization capability of single composite imagery
Pixel- F1- 0.911 0.885 0.894 0.835 0.830
level score To verify the effectiveness of the proposed TSANet model using
IoU 0.857 0.822 0.833 0.757 0.762 single composite imagery for agricultural parcel delineation, we con-
MCC 0.839 0.781 0.798 0.687 0.684 ducted comparative experiments. These experiments involved training
Object- SOver 0.092 0.163 0.180 0.144 0.167 TSANet with quarterly composite imagery and the corresponding SITS.
level SUnder 0.240 0.281 0.198 0.460 0.348 The quantitative results are presented in Table 5, and the corresponding
Sunion 0.216 0.281 0.238 0.380 0.339 bar chart shown in Fig. 14 better represents the difference.
It can be seen from Fig. 14 that SITS outperforms composite imagery
in agricultural delineation. For each quarter, SITS exhibits higher pixel-
level accuracy for F1, IoU, and MCC, with improvements ranging from 1
14
S. Yan et al. C o m p u t e r s a n d E l e c t r o n i c s i n A g r i c u l t u r e 220(2024)108902
Fig. 12. Visual representation results of TSANet performance on temporal transfer. The red boxes denote the land cover type changes.
Fig. 13. Quantitative evaluation of TSANet for temporal generalization ability evaluation, where the green mark denotes the location of mean value, and the orange
line represents the median value of models.
15
S. Yan et al. C o m p u t e r s a n d E l e c t r o n i c s i n A g r i c u l t u r e 220(2024)108902
Table 5
Illustration of the results for TSANet with time series data and corresponding composite data.
Metric Data type Dates
1st quarter 2nd quarter 3rd quarter 4th quarter
F1-score Time series data 0.861 0.901 0.887 0.863
Composite data 0.840 0.881 0.859 0.854
IoU Time series data 0.779 0.842 0.818 0.782
Composite data 0.749 0.809 0.774 0.769
MCC Time series data 0.729 0.810 0.783 0.734
Composite data 0.688 0.771 0.725 0.716
SOver Time series data 0.159 0.099 0.101 0.160
Composite data 0.269 0.100 0.169 0.171
SUnder Time series data 0.335 0.280 0.347 0.401
Composite data 0.435 0.414 0.417 0.430
Sunion Time series data 0.313 0.234 0.283 0.350
Composite data 0.445 0.316 0.354 0.374
% to 3 %, 1 % to 5 %, and 2 % to 7 %, respectively, compared to 6. Discussion
composite imagery. The higher pixel-level accuracy and lower object-
level accuracy indicate that temporal characteristics are beneficial to 6.1. The proposed model for agricultural field delineation using time series
enhance the performance of field parcel delineation. Moreover, while imagery
TSANet trained with SITS obtains higher accuracy than composite im-
agery, it makes sense to utilize composite imagery for agricultural parcel Satellite time series imagery is helpful to address the challenges
delineation. As shown in Fig. 14, the accuracy of agricultural parcel arising from ambiguities related to both the phenological stage and the
delineation varies due to differences in the time period of image spatial layout of field boundaries. These boundaries include features
acquisition. The pixel-level accuracy using the composite images of the such as tracks, roads, weed and grass swards, as well as trees and shrubs.
second quarter is not only higher than that of other quarters, but even In single-date imagery, distinguishing these features spectrally from the
higher than using the time series imagery of the first, third, and fourth field interiors is difficult (Duveiller and Defourny, 2010; Ozdogan and
quarters. The result is that the main growing period in the Netherlands is Woodcock, 2006). Additionally, time series imagery is instrumental in
from April to June, and harvest dates focus on July to September, when minimizing the effects of missing information, clouds, and shadows in
the differences between agricultural fields and backgrounds are pro- single-date imagery (Roy et al., 2014). Thus, it is of great significance to
nounced in spatial, spectral, and temporal features from images (Gella utilize SITS to delineate agricultural fields. However, due to the dense
et al., 2021). Hence, whereas SITS obtains better performance on agri- variety of image representation within SITS, the relevance of spatial,
cultural parcel delineation, TSANet still uses composite imagery in the spectral, and temporal characteristics is rarely investigated for agricul-
main growing period to improve field parcel extraction accuracy when tural field delineation. This results in limited model capacity to capture
SITS is not easily utilized. subtle differences between agricultural fields, particularly those of small
size and blur. Consequently, accurately delineating the location of
agricultural fields remains a challenging task.
In this paper, a novel TSANet model is proposed to adaptively learn
Fig. 14. Bar chart of the metrics for TSANet with time series data and corresponding composite data.
16
S. Yan et al. C o m p u t e r s a n d E l e c t r o n i c s i n A g r i c u l t u r e 220(2024)108902
spatial, spectral, and temporal attributes of agricultural parcels parcel fields when the model is trained on single-date images and single
throughout the crop phenology. A field boundary prediction stream is composite images. In this study, quarterly composite imagery was
designed to enhance the extraction of edge features, specifically focusing employed to investigate its impact on the delineation of agricultural
on edge information pertaining to field parcels. Moreover, a field parcel fields. The results indicated that using SITS yielded higher accuracy
refining block is employed to further enhance the geometric accuracy of compared to composite imagery, thus underscoring the importance of
agricultural fields. To verify the effectiveness of these carefully designed temporal information in enhancing agricultural field mapping accuracy.
architectures for agricultural field delineation, we conducted ablation Additionally, feeding the second quarter composite images as input for
experiments on TSANet and performed a comparative analysis with our proposed model can obtain better performance than SITS in the first,
other state-of-the-art models. All models were trained with Sentinel-2 third, and fourth quarters. Hence, leveraging composite imagery in the
time series imagery covering the Netherlands. The results showed that main growing period can be considered for agricultural parcel delinea-
TSANet achieved excellent performance in agricultural field delineation. tion when computational power is limited.
TSANet obtained the highest accuracy among all the deep learning al-
gorithms, with at least a 2.23 % higher F1 score, a 3.11 % higher IoU, 6.4. Perspectives
and a 4.23 % higher MCC compared to state-of-the-art models. Generally
speaking, previous published work focused on delineating agricultural With the rich temporal information from SITS, TSANet can accu-
parcels by modeling spatial-spectral image representations (Li et al., rately delineate agricultural fields. Nevertheless, several improvements
2023; Masoud et al., 2020), thereby limiting the ability to extract field can be explored when extending the proposed model to larger regions or
parcels. To bridge this capacity gap, TSANet effectively distills the different applications in future studies.
intrinsic correlation between the spatial and spectral characteristics First, for optical data, differences in temporal information and spatial
within the temporal domain to capture the subtle differences between resolution can also have an impact on the results of delineating agri-
field parcels and backgrounds, and generates boundary features to cultural fields, especially for global-scale field parcel delineation. The
emphasize field morphological characteristics. The potential of the idea phenological periods of crops in each region are also different. There-
for reducing feature dimensions will be discussed in Section 6.3. fore, utilizing TSANet model with multi-source remote sensing data for
global-scale parcel delineation is indeed imperative. Second, given re-
6.2. The applicability of the proposed model gions with frequent cloudy and rainy weather, which reduces the tem-
poral availability of high-quality optical imagery, especially during
The application of agricultural field extraction models to large-scale critical crop growth periods, the interference introduced poses chal-
regional field parcel delineation is of significant importance. Never- lenges for agricultural parcel delineation. Hence, in future studies, the
theless, due to the information gap between the training images and use of SAR imagery time series, such as Sentinel-2, can be employed to
real-world scenarios, fitting the model to images covering extensive assess the applicability of the TSANet model in areas with frequent
areas with limited training samples becomes challenging. This, in turn, cloudy and rainy conditions. Next, both sample quality and quantity
poses a significant challenge to the model’s generalization ability across significantly impact the performance of field parcel delineation. While
space and time. Meanwhile, it should be noted that the annual growth the proposed model has demonstrated advantages in extracting field
status of crops can change due to natural disasters or human activities, parcels using limited training data, employing a weak supervision
and the growth trends of crops in different regions may also vary. strategy with TSANet could alleviate the constraints related to sample
Traditional agricultural field delineation approaches often rely on spe- quality and quantity, especially in regions where sample collection is
cific assumptions and manual parameter tuning for images obtained at challenging. Finally, although the TSANet model is designed to delineate
different times. This process is labor-intensive and challenging to field parcels, it should be noted that our proposed architecture can also
generalize for various applications. Unlike traditional methods, TSANet be developed to incorporate into other deep learning model architec-
employs an end-to-end learning strategy, bypassing the need for com- tures with agricultural parcel potential due to its special architecture,
plex geographical models. Instead, it can directly extract field parcels such as UNet and ResNet. Thus, this paper provides general guidance via
through parameter fitting within the network. The experimental eval- the mining of multidimensional characteristics in SITS data for agri-
uation results for spatial and temporal transferability indicate that cultural parcel delineation.
TSANet achieves higher accuracy at the pixel-level compared to state-of-
art methods. This suggests that even in large-scale predictions, it can 7. Conclusions
accurately distinguish between farmland parcels and other land fea-
tures. Moreover, at the object-level, its Sunion score is at least 9.07 % It is crucial to automatically delineate the size, location, and borders
higher than that of comparative algorithms, indicating that the model of field parcels from satellite imagery since this will assist digital agri-
has a stronger ability to preserve the morphology of field parcels from culture services in ensuring food security and estimating grain output. In
unseen data than the other model. The better performance on agricul- this paper, a TSANet is developed by adaptively learning a joint spatial-
tural parcels further verifies the application potential in large-scale field spectral-temporal feature representation. Moreover, the shadow
parcel delineation work. boundary features are generated from semantic features to improve the
geometry of the field parcels. Through experiments in the Netherlands,
6.3. Other choices of time series images our proposed model has better performance in distinguishing between
field parcels and the surroundings than state-of-the-art methods, and
Utilizing satellite image time series in this research yielded high addresses the spectral similarity and spatial correlation over the tem-
performance in the delineation of agricultural parcels. This was ach- poral domain.
ieved by modeling TSANet to capture the dynamic changes in crop Our work provides the following conclusions for agricultural parcel
characteristics within plots throughout the growing season. However, delineation: 1) Ablation experiments indicate that a joint spatial-
employing a too long phenological period, resulting from a large volume spectral-temporal feature representation and consistency between the
of time series data, can potentially increase the computational burden semantic and edge characteristics of field parcels are beneficial to
and time consumption. Hence, exploring alternative satellite imagery delineating field parcels. Each part of the designed TSANet architecture
structures is necessary to achieve efficient agricultural parcel delinea- model plays an important role, and the proposed method has better
tion. Actually, few studies investigate the influences between composite performance than other deep learning models. 2) Our proposed model
imagery and time series imagery. (Waldner and Diakogiannis, 2020) demonstrates robust generalization capabilities in experiments con-
have shown that there are only small differences in the extraction of ducted across space and time. Compared to other models, it exhibits a
17
S. Yan et al. C o m p u t e r s a n d E l e c t r o n i c s i n A g r i c u l t u r e 220(2024)108902
superior ability to distinguish field parcels from their surroundings and Supervision. Dehai Zhu: Supervision.
accurately describe their morphology. Furthermore, TSANet has the
possibility of delineating field parcels in complex situations. 3) The
temporal information from SITS data still has obvious advantages for Declaration of competing interest
agricultural parcel delineation. Our TSANet model well exploits the
main characteristics of field parcels from time-series imagery. Further The authors declare that they have no known competing financial
developed models can provide a good framework for conducting the interests or personal relationships that could have appeared to influence
analysis and facilitate the production of accurate field parcel results for the work reported in this paper.
agricultural applications.
Data availability
CRediT authorship contribution statement
The data that has been used is confidential.
Shuai Yan: Writing – original draft, Methodology, Data curation,
Conceptualization. Xiaochuang Yao: Writing – review & editing, Acknowledgement
Project administration, Investigation, Funding acquisition, Data cura-
tion, Conceptualization. Jialin Sun: Visualization, Data curation. This work was supported by the National Key Research and Devel-
Weiming Huang: Writing – review & editing. Longshan Yang: Writing opment Program of China (Grant No. 2022YFB3903504) and the Na-
– review & editing. Chao Zhang: Supervision. Bingbo Gao: Supervi- tional Natural Science Foundation of China (Grant No. 42371281),
sion. Jianyu Yang: Supervision, Funding acquisition. Wenju Yun: which are gratefully acknowledged.
Appendix
The Equation of central difference convolution, circular difference convolution, and radial difference convolution layers.
( )
∑ ∑ ∑
y(x 5 )=w 1 (x 1 (cid:0) x 5 )+w 2 (x 2 (cid:0) x 5 )+⋯w 9 (x 9 (cid:0) x 5 )= w i x i + (cid:0) w i x 5 =ŵ 1 x 1 +ŵ 2 x 2 +ŵ 3 x 3 +⋯= ŵ i x i (1)
i={1,2,3,4,6,7,8,9} i={1,2,3,4,6,7,8,9}
y(x )=w (x (cid:0) x )+w (x (cid:0) x )+w (x (cid:0) x )+⋯w (x (cid:0) x )
5 1 1 2 2 2 3 3 3 6 9 9 8 ∑
=(w 1 (cid:0) w 4 )x 1 +(w 2 (cid:0) w 1 )x 2 +(w 3 (cid:0) w 2 )x 3 +(w 4 (cid:0) w 7 )x 4 +0x 5 +(w 6 (cid:0) w 3 )x 6 +(w 7 (cid:0) w 8 )x 7 +(w 8 (cid:0) w 9 )x 8 +(w 9 (cid:0) w 6 )x 9 = ŵ i x i (2)
y(x )=w (x (cid:0) x )+w (x (cid:0) x )+w (x (cid:0) x )+⋯w (x (cid:0) x )=w x +w w +w x +((cid:0) w )w +((cid:0) w )w +((cid:0) w )x +w w +((cid:0) w )x
13 1 1 7 3 3 8 5 5 9 25 25 9 1 1 3 4 5 5 1 7 3 ∑8 5 9 ∑11 11 11 12
+((cid:0) w )x +w x +((cid:0) w )w +((cid:0) w )w +((cid:0) w )w +w w +w w +w w + 0x = ŵx (3)
15 14 15 15 21 17 23 18 25 19 21 21 23 23 25 25 i i i
i={2,4,6,10,13,16,20,22,24}
′
where xi and x
i
are the input values from the local feature map patch, wi is the convolution kernel.
References Garnot, V.S.F., Landrieu Ieee, L., 2021. Panoptic segmentation of satellite image time
series with convolutional temporal attention networks, 18th IEEE/CVF international
conference on computer vision (ICCV). Ieee, Electr Network, pp. 4852–4861.
Aung, H.L., Uzkent, B., Burke, M., Lobell, D., Ermon, S., Ieee Comp, S.O.C., 2020. Farm
Gella, G.W., Bijker, W., Belgiu, M., 2021. Mapping crop types in complex farming areas
Parcel delineation using spatio-temporal convolutional networks, IEEE/CVF
using SAR imagery with dynamic time warping. ISPRS-J. Photogramm. Remote Sens.
conference on computer vision and pattern recognition (CVPR). Ieee Computer Soc, 175, 171–183.
Electr Network, pp. 340–349.
Graesser, J., Ramankutty, N., 2017. Detection of cropland field parcels from landsat
Belgiu, M., Csillik, O., 2018. Sentinel-2 cropland mapping using pixel-based and object- imagery. Remote Sens. Environ. 201, 165–180.
based time-weighted dynamic time warping analysis. Remote Sens. Environ. 204,
Hong, R., Park, J., Jang, S., Shin, H., Kim, H., Song, I., 2021. Development of a Parcel-
509–523.
level land Boundary Extraction algorithm for aerial imagery of Regularly arranged
Boughorbel, S., Jarray, F., El-Anbari, M., 2017. Optimal classifier for imbalanced data
agricultural areas. Remote Sens. 13, 20.
using Matthews Correlation coefficient metric. PLoS One 12, 17.
Jong, M., Guan, K.Y., Wang, S.B., Huang, Y.Z., Peng, B., 2022. Improving field boundary
Brink, A.V.D., Molema, M., 2008. The origins of dutch rural planning: a study of the early
delineation in ResUNets via adversarial deep learning. Int. J. Appl. Earth Obs.
history of land consolidation in the Netherlands. Plan. Perspect. 23, 427–453.
Geoinf. 112, 12.
Butenuth, M., Straub, B.M., Heipke, C., 2004. Automatic extraction of field boundaries
Li, T., Johansen, K., McCabe, M.F., 2022. A machine learning approach for identifying
from aerial imagery. In: In: Kdnet Symposium on Knowledge-Based Services for the
and delineating agricultural fields and their multi-temporal dynamics using three
Public Sector, pp. 14–25. decades of landsat data. ISPRS-J. Photogramm. Remote Sens. 186, 83–101.
Cai, Z.W., Hu, Q., Zhang, X.Y., Yang, J.Y., Wei, H.D., He, Z., Song, Q., Wang, C., Yin, G.F.,
Li, M.M., Long, J., Stein, A., Wang, X.Q., 2023. Using a semantic edge-aware multi-task
Xu, B.D., 2022. An adaptive image segmentation method with automatic selection of
neural network to delineate agricultural parcels from remote sensing images. ISPRS-
optimal scale for Extracting cropland Parcels in smallholder Farming systems. J. Photogramm. Remote Sens. 200, 24–40.
Remote Sens. 14, 21.
Long, J., Li, M.M., Wang, X.Q., Stein, A., 2022. Delineation of agricultural fields using
Diakogiannis, F.I., Waldner, F., Caccetta, P., Wu, C., 2020. ResUNet-a: A deep learning
multi-task BsiNet from high-resolution satellite images. Int. J. Appl. Earth Obs.
framework for semantic segmentation of remotely sensed data. ISPRS-J.
Geoinf. 112, 13.
Photogramm. Remote Sens. 162, 94–114.
Martinez, J.A.C., La Rosa, L.E.C., Feitosa, R.Q., Sanches, I.D., Happ, P.N., 2021. Fully
Duveiller, G., Defourny, P., 2010. A conceptual framework to define the spatial
convolutional recurrent networks for multidate crop recognition from multitemporal
resolution requirements for agricultural monitoring using remote sensing. Remote image sequences. ISPRS-J. Photogramm. Remote Sens. 171, 188–201.
Sens. Environ. 114, 2637–2650.
Masoud, K.M., Persello, C., Tolpekin, V.A., 2020. Delineation of agricultural field
Fu, J., Liu, J., Tian, H., Li, Y., Bao, Y., Fang, Z., Lu, H., 2019. Dual attention network for
Boundaries from Sentinel-2 images using a novel super-resolution contour detector
scene segmentation. In: Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer
based on fully convolutional networks. Remote Sens. 12, 16.
Vision and Pattern Recognition, pp. 3146–3154.
Nicolau, A.P., Flores-Anderson, A., Griffin, R., Herndon, K., Meyer, F.J., 2021. Assessing
Garnot, V.S.F., Landrieu, L., Giordano, S., Chehata, N.J.I., 2020. Satellite image time
SAR C-band data to effectively distinguish modified land uses in a heavily disturbed
series classification with pixel-set encoders and temporal self-attention. In:
Amazon forest. Int. J. Appl. Earth Obs. Geoinf. 94, 13.
Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern
Ozdogan, M., Woodcock, C.E., 2006. Resolution dependent errors in remote sensing of
Recognition, pp. 12325–12334. cultivated areas. Remote Sens. Environ. 103, 203–217.
Park, J., Woo, S., Lee, J.-Y., Kweon, I.S.J.a.p.a., 2018. Bam: Bottleneck attention module.
18
S. Yan et al. C o m p u t e r s a n d E l e c t r o n i c s i n A g r i c u l t u r e 220(2024)108902
Persello, C., Bruzzone, L., 2010. A novel protocol for Accuracy assessment in Sentinel-2 data time-series for the monitoring of the common agricultural policy.
classification of very high resolution images. IEEE Trans. Geosci. Remote Sensing 48, Remote Sens. 10, 21.
1232–1244. Stanczuk-Galwiaczek, M., Sobolewska-Mikulska, K., Ritzema, H., van Loon-Steensma, J.
Persello, C., Tolpekin, V.A., Bergado, J.R., de By, R.A., 2019. Delineation of agricultural M., 2018. Integration of water management and land consolidation in rural areas to
fields in smallholder farms from satellite images using fully convolutional networks adapt to climate change: Experiences from Poland and the Netherlands. Land Use
and combinatorial grouping. Remote Sens. Environ. 231, 18. Pol. 77, 498–511.
Roy, D.P., Ju, J.C., Kline, K., Scaramuzza, P.L., Kovalskyy, V., Hansen, M., Loveland, T. Sun, Y.W., Luo, J.C., Xia, L.G., Wu, T.J., Gao, L.J., Dong, W., Hu, X.D., Hai, Y.R., 2020.
R., Vermote, E., Zhang, C.S., 2010. Web-enabled landsat data (WELD): landsat ETM Geo-parcel-based crop classification in very-high-resolution images via hierarchical
plus composited mosaics of the conterminous United States. Remote Sens. Environ. perception. Int. J. Remote Sens. 41, 1603–1624.
114, 35–49. Turker, M., Kok, E.H., 2013. Field-based sub-boundary extraction from remote sensing
Roy, D.P., Qin, Y., Kovalskyy, V., Vermote, E.F., Ju, J., Egorov, A., Hansen, M.C., imagery using perceptual grouping. ISPRS-J. Photogramm. Remote Sens. 79,
Kommareddy, I., Yan, L., 2014. Conterminous United States demonstration and 106–121.
characterization of MODIS-based landsat ETM plus atmospheric correction. Remote Turkoglu, M.O., D’Aronco, S., Perich, G., Liebisch, F., Streit, C., Schindler, K., Wegner, J.
Sens. Environ. 140, 433–449. D., 2021. Crop mapping from image time series: deep learning with multi-scale label
Rufin, P., Frantz, D., Ernst, S., Rabe, A., Griffiths, P., Ozdogan, M., Hostert, P., 2019. hierarchies. Remote Sens. Environ. 264, 19.
Mapping cropping Practices on a National Scale Using Intra-Annual Landsat Time Wagner, M.P., Oppelt, N., 2020. Extracting agricultural fields from remote sensing
Series Binning. Remote Sens. 11, 26. imagery using graph-based growing contours. Remote Sens. 12, 20.
Rustowicz, R.M., Cheong, R., Wang, L., Ermon, S., Burke, M., Lobell, D.B., 2019. Waldner, F., Diakogiannis, F.I., 2020. Deep learning on edge: Extracting field boundaries
Semantic segmentation of crop type in Africa: a novel dataset and analysis of deep from satellite images with a convolutional neural network. Remote Sens. Environ.
Learning methods. Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition. 245, 15.
M Rustowicz, R., Cheong, R., Wang, L., Ermon, S., Burke, M., Lobell, D., 2019. Semantic Wang, Z.W., She, Q., Smolic, A., Ieee Comp, S.O.C., 2021. ACTION-net: multipath
segmentation of crop type in Africa: A novel dataset and analysis of deep learning excitation for action recognition, IEEE/CVF conference on computer vision and
methods, Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern pattern recognition (CVPR). Ieee Computer Soc, Electr Network, pp. 13209–13218.
Recognition Workshops, pp. 75-82. Watkins, B., Van Niekerk, A., 2019. Automating field boundary delineation with multi-
Rydberg, A., Borgefors, G., 1999. Extracting multispectral edges in satellite images over temporal Sentinel-2 imagery. Comput. Electron. Agric. 167, 10.
agricultural fields. In: Proceedings 10th International Conference on Image Analysis Xu, L., Ming, D.P., Du, T.Y., Chen, Y.Y., Dong, D.H., Zhou, C.H., 2022. Delineation of
and Processing, pp. 786–791. cultivated land parcels based on deep convolutional networks and geographical
Sitokonstantinou, V., Papoutsis, I., Kontoes, C., Lafarga Arnal, A., Armesto Andres, A.P., thematic scene division of remotely sensed images. Comput. Electron. Agric. 192, 16.
Garraza Zurbano, J.A., 2018. Scalable Parcel-based crop identification scheme using Yan, L., Roy, D.P., 2014. Automated crop field extraction from multi-temporal web
enabled landsat data. Remote Sens. Environ. 144, 42–64.
19