IEEETRANSACTIONSONGEOSCIENCEANDREMOTESENSING,VOL.62,2024 5649813
PhenoCropNet: A Phenology-Aware-Based SAR
Crop Mapping Network for Cloudy
and Rainy Areas
Lei Lei, Xinyu Wang , Member, IEEE, Xin Hu , Member, IEEE,
Liangpei Zhang , Fellow, IEEE, and Yanfei Zhong , Senior Member, IEEE
Abstract—Cropmappinginacloudyareaisalwaysachallenge agricultural geoinformation, paving the way for subsequent
due to the lack of time-series clear optical satellite imagery. practical application and scientific analysis, such as crop
Making use of time-series synthetic aperture radar (SAR)
management [5], food security supervision [6], environmental
imagery that is immune to cloud contamination is essential and
protection [7], and biodiversity research [8]. While it remains
promising for seamless and large-area crop mapping. However,
existing deep learning (DL)-based crop classification methods to be a great challenge for crop mapping in cloudy area, such
give the extracted phenological features equal weights, without asSouthChina,whereitiscloudyandrainyformonthsonend
considering the different contributions of phenological features duringthecropgrowthstages,makingitunavailabletoacquire
ofthedifferentcropgrowthperiods.Inthisarticle,aphenology-
clearopticalsatelliteimagerytimeseries(SITS)tocapturethe
based crop mapping network (PhenoCropNet) is proposed to
phenological feature of crop mapping [9]. Synthetic aperture
extractthediscriminativefeaturesfromthetwolevels,including
the key phenological dates in the phenological periods and key radar (SAR), that can provide all-day and all-weather obser-
phenological periods in the whole growth stages. PhenoCropNet vation by active remote sensing, is the potential for seamless
includes a phenological calendar information injection (PAI) crop type mapping [10], [11], [12], [13] and crop intensity
module that divides the satellite imagery time series (SITS)
mapping [14] at large scale regardless of the local climate
into multiple sequences according to the phenological calendar
condition.
information, and a hierarchical attention network structure that
uses the two-level bidirectional gated recurrent unit-based self- An important challenge when it comes to crop mapping
attention(BiGRUA)modulestoautomaticallyextractthefeatures using SAR SITS is the similarity of phenological evolution
containing the most important phenological information of key ofdifferentcroptypes,causingconfusionbetweencrops[15].
phenological dates and key phenological periods. The proposed
The phenological evolution in SAR crop mapping refers to
PhenoCropNet was verified in Hubei province in China, around
185933 km2, a typical cloudy area in China, for rapid winter the time-series backscattering of different polarization modes
crop mapping based on temporal Sentinel-1 SAR imagery. The in the SAR system, such as VV or VH. The critical point of
mapping result shows that the F1-score of PhenoCropNet for cropmappingusingSARSITSistheextractionofdiscernible
wintercropmappingcouldachieve0.90,showinggreatpotential features from the phenological evolution. Traditional methods
in large-scale and seamless crop mapping. The code is available
extractthefeaturesbymanually-designedvariousphenological
on request: https://github.com/LL0912/PhenoCropNet.
metrics, such as the index designed for a particular crop
Index Terms—Crop mapping, deep learning (DL) method, type based on SAR phenological evolution [16], the slope or
phenological information, time series Sentinel-1.
the variance of the phenological evolution [17], the starting
and ending date of the crop growing season, or the length
I. INTRODUCTION of the growth periods [15]. Machine learning (ML) methods
are also adopted to select the most representative features
DESCRIBING the spatial distribution of crop types via
from a large amount of temporal based on some optimal
crop mapping [1], [2], [3], [4] is an important basis for
feature selection index, such as the out-of-bag score or Gini
score in the random forest [19], [20], [21], [22]. The advan-
Received 25 April 2024; revised 23 August 2024; accepted 8 September
2024. Date of publication 17 October 2024; date of current version tage of ML methods is the interpretability of the model by
3 December 2024. This work was supported in part by the National Key ranging the important features, which has been applied in
ResearchandDevelopmentProgramofChinaunderGrant2022YFB3903404
crop classification [22] and relative phenological parameter
andinpartbytheNationalNaturalScienceFoundationofChinaunderGrant
42325105andGrant42101327.(Correspondingauthor:YanfeiZhong.) inversion,suchascropyieldestimation[22].Byadjustingthe
LeiLei,LiangpeiZhang,andYanfeiZhongarewiththeStateKeyLabora- input features of the ML method, the important SAR-specific
toryofInformationEngineeringinSurveying,MappingandRemoteSensing,
featurescanbedetermined,forexample,theoptimalasymmet-
and Hubei Provincial Engineering Research Center of Natural Resources
Remote Sensing Monitoring, Wuhan University, Wuhan 430079, China ric coherence of SAR and polarimetric SAR is found better
(e-mail: leilei912@whu.edu.cn; zlp62@whu.edu.cn; zhongyanfei@whu. thantemporalcoherence[23].Thecropclassificationaccuracy
edu.cn).
of both categories above depends on the manually designed
Xinyu Wang is with the School of Remote Sensing and Infor-
mation Engineering, Wuhan University, Wuhan 430079, China (e-mail: features, which might be out of operation when there are no
wangxinyu@whu.edu.cn). conspicuous phenological characters.
Xin Hu is with Guangzhou Urban Planning and Design Survey Research
To mitigate the limitation of manually crafted features,
Institute,Guangzhou510060,China.
DigitalObjectIdentifier10.1109/TGRS.2024.3483110 recently, deep learning (DL) techniques for their strong
1558-0644©2024IEEE.Personaluseispermitted,butrepublication/redistributionrequiresIEEEpermission.
Seehttps://www.ieee.org/publications/rights/index.htmlformoreinformation.
Authorized licensed use limited to: National Institute of Technology Patna. Downloaded on July 08,2025 at 10:58:17 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.
5649813 IEEETRANSACTIONSONGEOSCIENCEANDREMOTESENSING,VOL.62,2024
feature extraction capability have been employed for crop phenological periods. Specifically, to add phenological
mapping using time-series SAR imagery [24], [25], [26], calendar information, the input complete time-series
[27], [28], [29], [30]. To process time-series information, SAR backscattering is divided into several shortest
1-D convolutional neural networks (1D-CNNs) [22] and the sequences without intersection to represent different
series of recurrent neural networks (RNNs), including long crop growth stages.
short-term memory (LSTM) models [27] and gated recurrent 2) Designing a hierarchical attention network. A hierarchi-
units (GRUs) [28], have been widely adopted to realize pixel- cal attention network structure is superior to extracting
wise classification, due to their ability to build the long-term features from both the key dates and key periods at a
relationships of time-series data. Another mainstream of DL localandglobalperspective.Sincetheattentionweights
method is the multilevel attention mechanism, which has of the hierarchical structure that show the importance
been adopted to excavate multiscale spatial-temporal features score of phenological dates and periods can be learned
of time-series SAR for crop classification [29]. While these automatically, the phenological knowledge of important
methods do not reveal the principle of DL methods, and fail growth dates and periods could be added. In detail, the
to answer the question that which dates or period is more first and the second layers are to excavate the important
importantforcropclassification.Furthermore,inordertobuild features of key dates and key periods, respectively.
trust in DL methods, some recent research has engaged in 3) Designing an efficient basic module. To effectively
the interpretability of the DL model [31], [32]. For example, model the long-term relationship of SAR SITS, a bi-
the self-attention mechanism is combined with LSTM to directional GRU is employed as the basic unit for
capture the extracted features of more importance [31]. And comparableperformancebutfewercomputingresources
grad-weighted class activation mapping(Grad-CAM) [33] has than LSTM. Moreover, the self-attention mechanism is
been adapted to time-series remote sensing imagery for unsu- employed to concentrate and refine the most important
pervisedclassification,therefore,confusedcroptypescouldbe deep features.
explained by analyzing the important date to the model [32]. GiventhegreatdataprocessionpressurefromtheGBrange
AlthoughDLmethodshaveachievedexcellentperformance data of SAR SITS, a rapid workflow of large-scale crop
in crop mapping, these methods, however, do not consider mapping online based on the Google Earth Engine (GEE)
the phenological knowledge of crop growth during the model platform is proposed and implemented in Hubei province,
designing process or the model training process. Phenological covering around 185933 km2 acreage, for winter crop map-
knowledge refers to the prior knowledge about crop growth, pingcombinedwiththeproposedmethod.Theresultsconfirm
such as crop calendar of different growth period, and the the effectiveness of each module in PhenoCropNet and the
important growth period to differentiate crop from other land superiority of PhenoCropNet in both early- and in-season
cover types [34], [35]. For example, previous studies have crop mapping. Moreover, the visualization analysis of the
demonstrated the importance of different crop growth period PhenoCropNetresultsverifiesthecoincidenceoftheextracted
to crop classification [36], [37], [38], and crop biophysical phenological weights with the phenological prior knowledge,
parameter assessment [39]. Specifically, the flowering period helping the understanding of the network. To summarize, our
is found crucial for rapeseed extraction from optical remote contributions are as follows.
sensingimages,duringwhichthehueofrapeseedparcelshows
1) A phenology-aware-based crop mapping network,
ayellow–greencolor[40],whiletheearlystageisfoundmore
named PhenoCropNet, including a phenological cal-
sensitive for crop biophysical parameter monitoring using
endar information injection (PAI) module and a hier-
temporal Sentinel-1 backscattering parameters [37]. Adding
archical phenology self-attention network structure is
existingphenologicalknowledgetotheDLmodelwillnotonly
proposed to extract the discriminate features from two
bebeneficialtoimprovetheabilityofthemodeltodistinguish
levels: key dates and key growth periods to distinguish
different crop types, but also helpful to escalate the capability
crops with similar phenology.
of the model to perceive the important phenological periods,
2) The PAI module is designed to endow SITS with
making classification and interpretation feasible concurrently.
the phenological meaning of crop growth periods to
Therefore,howtoaddthephenologicalknowledgeisthemain
facilitate the network to extract the discriminative deep
challenge encountered by existing DL models.
representation of crop growth periods.
Theobjectiveofthisstudyistoaddphenologicalknowledge
3) Hierarchical phenology self-attention network structure
totheDLmodeltodiscriminatecropwithsimilarphenological
taking bi-directional GRU and self-attention mechanism
evolution and reveal phenology-related mechanisms perceived
as the basic unit is designed to help the model capture
by the model for better classification and interpretation. Phe-
thekeydateandkeygrowthperiodsinalocalandglobal
noCropNet is proposed in this study with the following three
perspective for crop classification.
improved aspects to fuse phenological knowledge.
1) Injecting crop calendar information. Since SAR could
provide images covering the whole phenological cal-
II. METHODOLOGY
endar circle, making full use of the phenological Formally, the aim is to assign a label for each pixel x ∈
i
information of the crop growth calendar is favorable to Rt×m belonging to the image X ∈ RH×W×t×m to acquire
differentiate crop with similar phenological characters the crop distribution map Y ∈ RH×W×C, where H, W,
and facilitate the following feature extraction of key C, t, and m are the height and the width of the imagery,
Authorized licensed use limited to: National Institute of Technology Patna. Downloaded on July 08,2025 at 10:58:17 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.
LEIetal.:PhenoCropNet:APHENOLOGY-AWARE-BASEDSARCROPMAPPINGNETWORK 5649813
Fig.1. Frameworkofthephenology-aware-basedcropmappingnetwork.
prior knowledge about the time schedule of crop growth can
be injected into the model, to facilitate the network to make
full use of the phenological information automatically

Fig. 2. Illustration of the phenological sequence information injection
 i
c
f
1
c
o
1
r
∩
c
2
c 2
o
∩
r
,
c
.
j
..,∩c j =∅:
module. s i = if c 1 ∩c 2 ∩,...,∩c j ̸=∅: (1)
the number of class categories, time-series length, and the
 m
−
i
m
n(
i
l
n
(
(
c
l
1
(
)
c
,.
)
.
,
.
.
,
.
l
.
(
,
c
l(
j
)
c
)
)
o
)
r l(c
1
∩c
2
∩,...,∩c
j
)
1 j
numberofinputband,respectively.SARcanacquirecomplete (cid:88)
t = l(s ). (2)
time-series imagery incloudy area, but the contributionof the i
i
features at each date to crop classification is different. Paying
adequate attention to and excavating the important features is B. Hierarchical Phenology Self-Attention Network Structure
conducive to improving the discriminability of the classifier.
PhenCropNet has a two-level hierarchical attention net-
PhenoCropNet is designed to extract the important features
work structure to extract the discriminate features of the key
from two levels: the key dates and key growth periods, with
dates and key periods. Each level in the hierarchical network
the assistance of phenological calendar information, as Fig. 1
structureiscomposedofseveralbidirectionalGRU-basedself-
shows.
attention (BiGRUA) modules, the details of which are to be
explained in Section II-C. In Section II-B, the functions and
A. PAI Module
details of each layer in the hierarchical attention network
Phenologicalcalendarinformationrepresentingthedifferent structure are to be stated.
crop growth stages is crucial for crop mapping because the 1) Key Date Attention Level: The first level takes the
discriminative features of the crop show a dynamic change subsequence corresponding to different crop growth stages
withthedevelopmentofthecrop.Inthedifferentphenological as the input. Each subsequence is utilized by an independent
periods, the contribution of the features at different dates BiGRUA unit to extract the important features of the key date
also varies. The PAI module is proposed to divide the SITS in the growth period. The motivation to design this module
according to the phenological calendars of the crops. With is based on the inspiration that although SAR can monitor
the access of the imaging dates and the local phenological thecropgrowthstatusinacontinuousway,theseparabilityof
calendar, time-series SAR can be clipped into subsequence, cropvariesfordifferentdates.Locatingatthekeydatewiththe
such as the emergence, opening, budding, flowering, and most obvious features can force the model to concentrate on
poddingandmaturityforrapeseedasshowninFig.2.Ifthere thedatewithhighseparabilityandexcavatethefeaturesatthat
are more than one crop type and the crop growth periods date. In detail, if the SAR SITS is clipped into subsequence
are overlapped for various crop types, the temporal SITS are s ,i ∈[1,q], the time step of each subsequence could contain
i
cropped into the sequence with comprehensive phenological differentnumbersoftimesteps,andthekeydateattentionlevel
calendar information. The formula of PAI can be expressed wouldbecomposedofq BiGRUAmodule.Eachsequences is
i
as follows, where s is the clipped subsequence of time- input into the corresponding independent BiGRUA module to
i
series SAR, c represents a group of day of year (DoY) of obtainthekeydate-focusingfeatures Od ∈RN×1×v,i ∈[1,q],
j i
crop growth period for the crop type j, l(·) represents the where N and v are the batch size of training samples and the
lengthofcropgrowthperiod.Theequationsillustratethebasic number of hidden neurons in the first-level BiGRUA module.
idea of PAI, which splits the complete time-series SAR into 2) Key Growth Period Attention Module: The second level
the shortest sequence without overlap to represent the crop ofthekeygrowthperiodconsistsofonesingleBiGRUAmod-
growth period of different types. Through this module, the ule,takingtheoutputofeachphenologicalperiodconcatenated
Authorized licensed use limited to: National Institute of Technology Patna. Downloaded on July 08,2025 at 10:58:17 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.
5649813 IEEETRANSACTIONSONGEOSCIENCEANDREMOTESENSING,VOL.62,2024
much of the previous hidden state to retain for the renewed
hiddenstate,alongwiththeinputofthecurrenttimestep.The
updategateselects whichpartsofthe previoushiddenstateto
preserveforthecurrentoutputwhilediscardingtheremainder.
Asforthemissingparts,theinverseoftheupdategateisused
to patch up the missing parts from the renewed hidden state.
The hidden state hl is the output of the current l layer at t
t
time step and also the hidden state for the next t +1 time
step. Through the gated recurrent structure, GRU can extract
the features of time-series satellite imagery automatically.
To better build the interactive relationship in the long-term
Fig.3. StructureofBiGRUAmodule.
context,abidirectionalGRUisapplied,whichusestheoutput
at the final time step as the first hidden state to build a
as the input Od ∈ RN×q×v, to obtain the key phenological reversed GRU layer. The output of the forward and backward
GRU layer is concatenated as [hforward,hbackward], named h
period features Og ∈ RN×1×V, where V is the number of t t t
forthesubsequentself-attentionmodule,whichisdesignedto
hidden neurons in the second-level BiGRUA module. The
betteraggregatetheeffectivefeaturesanddisregardtheuseless
motivation for designing the second level is based on the
features for classification.
phenologicalknowledgethattheappearanceofacropvariesat
2) Self-Attention Mechanism: The attention mechanism
different growth periods, resulting in different separability on
simulates the human vision system, which selectively chooses
remote sensing imagery. Previous studies have demonstrated
the conscious parts to process, leaving the trivial parts unpro-
the importance of key growth periods in crop classification.
cessed when confronted with a predetermined purpose. The
In the second level, by fusing the features of different growth
attentionnetworkimplementsthefocusonacertainimportant
stages, the key growth stage would be located from a global
partbyadoptingelement-wisemultiplication(Hadamardprod-
perspective.
uct) with the self-adaptive weight calculated previously. The
ways to calculate the weight are various, such as a general
C. Bidirectional GRU-Based Self-Attention Module
function [42] and a nonlocal function [43]. In the proposed
BiGRUA, as Fig. 3 shows, is the specific module designed approach, the popularly employed general function is used to
toextractfeaturesfromthekeydateandkeygrowthperiodsof calculatetheweightsfromtheoutputofthebidirectionalGRU
SITS, which consists of two structures, multiple bidirectional layer. It comprises one fully connected layer followed by a
GRU layers, and a self-attention layer. The advantage of a softmax activation function to generate the attention weight
bidirectional GRU-based unit is that it is an ideal structure to self-adaptively. The attention weight is then multiplied with
process time-series date, avoiding forgetting effectively and the bidirectional GRU output on the element-wise production
grasping context information of temporal data. The merits to generate the final abstract feature. The mathematical for-
of the self-attention mechanism are the automation and the mulas for this process are shown in the following equations:
convenience of obtaining the key date and key growth period.
a =softmax(w h +b ) (7)
1) Bidirectional GRU-Based Unit: Each GRU layer uses t at t at
one GRU unit iteratively to decide the information to be h∗ t = a t ·h t (8)
preserved or abandoned in the SAR SITS automatically via ex
softmax(x)= (9)
thegatemechanism,havingtheabilitytoexcavatetheabstract (cid:80) ex
features of temporal SAR data. One GRU unit contains one
where w and b are the trainable parameter vectors.
reset gate, one update gate, and one renewed hidden cell, at at
as shown in the following equations:
gateforward =σ(cid:0)w xl−1+w hl +b (cid:1) (3) D. Crop Mapping Classifier
reset rx t rh t−1 r
gateforward =σ(cid:0)w xl−1+w hl +b (cid:1) (4) A single-layer perception is employed as the classifier to
update ux t uh t−1 u process the output of the hierarchical attention network by
n t =tanh (cid:0) gatef r o es rw et ard·(cid:0)w nh hl t−1 (cid:1)+w nx xl t −1+b n (cid:1) assigning a label to each pixel, as follows:
(5)
Oh =ReLU(w Og+b )
(cid:16) (cid:17) ht ht
hf
t
orward = hl
t
= 1− gatef
u
o
p
r
d
w
a
a
te
rd ·n
t
+ gatef
u
o
p
r
d
w
a
a
te
rd·hl
t−1 p=w Oh +b (10)
p h
(6)
where w and b are the learnable parameters, Oh ∈RN×v′
ht ht
where w rx , w rh , w ux , w uh , w nh , w nx , b r , b u , and b n are the is the output of the single-layer perception with the feature
learnableweights,σ andtanharetheactivationfunction.Both dimension of v′, p∈RN×C is the predicted probability of the
the reset gate gateforward and the update gate gateforward are model, and C is the number of class categories.
reset update
derivedfromtheinputxl−1 atthecurrentt timestepofthelast Thecross-entropylossfunctionistheoptimizationobjective
t
l−1layerandthehiddenstate hl attheprevioust−1time to train the weight of PhenoCropNet via the forward and
t−1
step of the current l layer. The reset gate determines how backward propagation algorithm. L2-norm regularization is
Authorized licensed use limited to: National Institute of Technology Patna. Downloaded on July 08,2025 at 10:58:17 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.
LEIetal.:PhenoCropNet:APHENOLOGY-AWARE-BASEDSARCROPMAPPINGNETWORK 5649813
also added to prevent overfitting. The overall loss function TABLEI
follows: REFINEDINSITUSAMPLEINFORMATIONIN2021IN
THESTUDYAREA
N C
1 XX
L =− pclog(lc)+λ∥w∥2 (11)
N i i
i=1 c=1
where w represents the parameters in PhenoCropNet, and λ
is the L2 regularization parameter.
E. Rapid Large-Scale Online GEE Crop Mapping Using
Temporal Sentinel-1 Imagery
Large-scale crop mapping supported by the time-series
remote sensing imagery poses a challenge to the data storage
and computing resources, requiring the GB range storage
systemandahigh-performanceprocessor.Thisproblemcanbe
dealtwithbyutilizingacloudcomputingplatformthatallows
large-scalegeospatialanalysis.TheGEEplatformwasadopted
in this study as it allows convenient acquisition and quick collected from the ground range detected (GRD) dataset on
preprocessing of temporal Sentinel-1 imagery. However, the the GEE platform [41]. The imaging dates corresponding to
application programming interfaces (APIs) for classification the crop growth periods are shown in Fig. 5(d).
are limited on the GEE platform, which does not support Sentinel-1 GRD dataset underwent preprocessing from the
customized methods, such as DL networks. To solve the single look complex data (SLC) to the calibrated product
problem and realize large-scale online crop mapping quickly on the GEE, including thermal noise removal, radiometric
and intelligently, Google Drive and Google Colab were also calibration, terrain rectification, and resampling to 10-m reso-
utilized to achieve the data transmit workflow of time-series lution. Other customized preprocessing steps, such as speckle
Sentinel-1 imagery preprocession and analysis. The overall filteringandradiometricterrainnormalizationwerecodedand
frameworkofcropmappingatalargescale,takingwintercrop implemented on the GEE platform considering the total data
extractioninHubeiprovinceasanexample,isshowninFig.4. reaching 600 GB.
Generallyspeaking,thisisaneffectiveschemethatisnotonly Theinsitusampleswerecollectedduring24–26April2021,
appropriate for Hubei province, but also for other regions or when the winter rapeseed was in the podding period and
countries, regardless of the weather conditions, to obtain crop the winter wheat was in the earing period. The phenological
mapping results both quickly and accurately. calendar for the main winter crop types is shown in Fig. 5(d).
The sampling route covered 11 counties in Hubei province,
and 959 km in total, as shown in Fig. 5(a). For the label of
III. EXPERIMENTSANDANALYSIS
crop type, it is difficult to interpret the crop type merely from
A. Study Area and Dataset
remote sensing imagery, therefore, the label of all samples of
The study area, Hubei province in China as shown in crop types is from in situ windshield survey, during which
Fig. 5(a), spans 185933 km2 and lies in the middle reaches the crop type of each parcel along the road is recorded on
of the Yangtze River, renowned as one of the vital “bread the mobile application named GPS Toolbox, with the location
baskets” of China. The acreage of winter wheat in Hubei and photography, as shown in Fig. 5(b) and (c) following the
province ranks twelfth and that of winter rapeseed ranks third planned route. Other categories such as water, fallow land,
amongalltheprovincesinChina.Fromtheperspectiveofcrop andartificialbuildingswerelabeledbyvisualinterpretationof
mappinginChina,Hubeiprovinceisatypicalandchallenging high-resolution imagery. Due to the discrepancy of planting
area, due to the cloudy and rainy weather, diverse terrain con- areas of different crop types, the number of crop samples
ditions, and smallholder planting patterns. The west of Hubei is nearly impossible to maintain a balance. Considering the
province is mostly mountains, while the middle and eastern unequal distribution of different land-cover types, we remain
areas are plains. The long-lasting cloudy and rainy weather all the labeled crop-type samples in the experiment. We kept
brings challenges to crop mapping using optical SITS data. the number of labeled parcels of each noncrop land-cover
Thesmallholderplantingpatternsalsodemandhigh-resolution type that is annotated by interpretation of remote sensing
satellite imagery. All these factors render Hubei province an imagery to be balanced, as shown in Table I. While due to
exemplary and pivotal region for crop mapping in the middle the different shapes and sizes of different noncrop land-cover
and lower Yangtze River basin. types, the number of labeled pixels might vary a lot. All the
The Sentinel-1 satellite constellation consists of two iden- samplingpointswerecheckedtwicewiththehelpofSentinel-
tical radar imagery satellites in the same orbit, and can 2imagery,labeledasindependentparcelsinArcGIS10.2,and
cover Hubei province in 12 days, providing adequate SITS savedinshapefileformat.Intheexperiments,theparcelswere
data to monitor crop phenology. 17 time-series Sentinel-1A/B dividedintoindependenttraining,validation,andtestdatasets,
interferometric wide (IW) swath images of dual polarization to guarantee geographic separation. Table I enumerates the
(VV and VH) from October 22, 2020 to June 7, 2021 were sample details by pixel and parcel counts.
Authorized licensed use limited to: National Institute of Technology Patna. Downloaded on July 08,2025 at 10:58:17 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.
5649813 IEEETRANSACTIONSONGEOSCIENCEANDREMOTESENSING,VOL.62,2024
Fig.4. Workflowofrapidlarge-scaleonlineGEEcropmappingusingtemporalSentinel-1imagery.
Fig.5. (a)Geographicallocationofthestudyarea,HubeiprovinceinChina.Photographyofinsitusamplesof(b)winterwheatand(c)winterrapeseedin
April2021.(d)Phenologicalcalendarforwinterwheatandrapeseed,andtheimagingtimelineofSARSITSdata.
B. Implement Details and Model Evaluation heads,and2048hiddenneuronsineachattentionmodule.For
The comparison methods include one ML method, i.e., PhenoCropNet, the phenological period is set to 5 with 4, 3,
RF [44], and four improved DL methods for crop mapping, 4, 3, and 3 sequences correspondingly, corresponding to the
i.e.,multilayerLSTM[45],adomain-adaptedRNN(DARNN) emergence,opening,budding,flowering,jointing,andmaturity
[46], DeepCropMapping (DCM) [31], and the transformer periodsofthewintercropaccordingtothewintercroppheno-
model [47]. RF, LSTM, and DARNN view each time step logical calendar in Hubei province. The number of BiGRUA
equally without the feature of key date extraction. DCM modules is set to 5 and 1 for the two levels, respectively.
and transformer [24] extract key features from the whole There were 512 hidden neurons for each BiGRUA module in
crop growth stage, without considering the feature of the key the hierarchical attention network, and also the classifier. The
phenological period. Adam optimizer was adopted for all DL methods, with the
Theoptimalhyperparametersforallthemodelswerechosen initial learning rate as 0.005, which was reduced to half when
in this study through grid search. For RF, the number of trees the total loss value stopped decreasing, taking 25 epochs as
was 250. For DARNN, there were two 1-D convolutional a step. L2 regularization was added, with λ being 10−4 for
layers of 4 and 8 filters with a kernel size of 1 × 3 and PhenoCropNet and 10−3 for the comparison methods. Each
three RNN layers with 8, 16, and 32 hidden neurons. For modelwastrainedfor200epochs,andthemodelwiththebest
LSTM and DCM, the number of LSTM layers is set to 2, performance on the validation set was saved. The DL models
and the number of hidden neurons in each LSTM unit is set were all run on a Linux platform (Ubuntu 7.2) with an Intel
to 256 and 512, respectively. For the transformer encoder, XeonE5-2620CPU,64GBofRAM,andfourNVIDIATesla
it consisted of two multihead self-attention layers with four P100 graphics cards.
Authorized licensed use limited to: National Institute of Technology Patna. Downloaded on July 08,2025 at 10:58:17 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.
LEIetal.:PhenoCropNet:APHENOLOGY-AWARE-BASEDSARCROPMAPPINGNETWORK 5649813
Theclassificationaccuracyisevaluatedonthetotalaccuracy TABLEII
for all the class categories, represented as kappa and the CLASSIFICATION ACCURACY COMPARISON RESULT OF THE PIXEL-WISE
individual accuracy for a certain class as F1 , as shown in DLMETHODSUSINGRAWSARSITSDATA
i
the following equations:
p − p
kappa= o e (12)
1− p
e
C
1 (cid:88)
p = ncorr (13)
o N i
i=1
C
p = 1 (cid:88) npredntrue (14)
e N2 i i
i=1
PA ·UA on PhenoCropNet using temporal SAR imagery. It is evident
F1 =2· i i (15)
i PA +UA from the mapping result that the main producing area for
i i
ncorr winter wheat is intensively distributed in the center of the
PA = i (16)
i npred province, spanning north to south, andthe south of Huangmei
i county. Compared with winter wheat, winter rapeseed is
ncorr
UA = i (17) sparsely distributed in the province, presenting a distribution
i ntrue
i from east to west.
where p is the measure of the agreement between the Fig.6(b)–(d)showszoomed-inviewcropmappingresultsin
o
observed and true labels, which is commonly referred to as local regions of the main producing areas for the two winter
the overall accuracy (OA), p is the measure of the expected crops of different methods. Fig. 6(b)–(d) shows that in the
e
agreement for a certain classifier, N is the overall number of mixedcroppingarea,thefragmentedparcelofwintercropcan
samples, and C is the number of class categories. ncorr is the scarcely be identified by RF, which is obvious in Fig. 6(b),
i
numberofcorrectlyclassifiedsamples,andnpred andntrue are, with rather coarse edge. While the edge of the parcel is
i i
respectively,thenumberofpredictedsamplesandtruesamples rathersmoothforDARNN,asshowninFig.6(b).ForLSTM,
for the ith category. PA and UA are the producer’s accuracy DCM, and transformer which only use the time-series SITS
i i
and the user’s accuracy for the ith category. in a global perspective, without considering the hierarchical
relationship between different growth period, there are severe
isolated misclassified pixels in the parcels. In the last row
C. Comparison With Other Methods
in Fig. 6(b) and (c), the edge of fragmented parcels can
1) Quantitative Evaluation: Table II shows the compar- be maintained and the misclassification can be reduced for
ison of crop classification results between PhenoCropNet PhenoCropNet.
and the other ML and DL methods. This first demonstrates The features extracted by the DL models before the classi-
the feasibility of using SAR SITS data for dry-land crop fier and the original temporal VV and VH polarimetric signal
differentiation in cloudy areas. The average accuracy of the through t-distributed stochastic neighbor embedding (t-SNE)
method without focusing on the features of key phenological transformation are visualized by scatter diagram in Fig. 7 to
date (RF, LSTM, and DARNN) is around 0.9650 for winter evaluate the efficiency of the feature extraction qualitatively.
wheat and 0.8872 for rapeseed. The average accuracy of the Each colored dot represents a sample of a certain category.
methods focusing on features of key phenological date while For an effective classifier, the dots of the same color should
ignoring the features of key phenological period (DCM and be close, while the dots of different colors should be distant.
transformer)isaround0.9651forwinterwheatand0.8966for Compared with the other DL methods, PhenoCropNet can
rapeseed. This suggests the feature extraction of key pheno- extract more efficient features, which is evident in the more
logical dates promotes the crop classification, especially for obvious boundaries between class categories and the fewer
rapeseed. PhenoCropNet achieves the highest kappa, OA, and dotsoutsidetheclusters,especiallyforthetwocroptypes.This
F1-score for the target crop, with the F1-score for winter further proves the effectiveness of the hierarchical attention
wheat being above 0.97 and that for winter rapeseed being module in PhenoCropNet for crop classification.
above 0.91, suggesting that the features of key phenological
periods can further improve the crop classification of SAR
D. Visualization Analysis of PhenoCropNet
SITS, and incorporating the phenological information of the
crop growth stages and the hierarchical attention structure is In this study, to measure the separability between two
stimulating to excavate phenological features of time-series class categories before classification, the Jeffries–Matusita
SAR for crop classification. (JM) distance is used to calculate the separability between
2) QualitativeEvaluation: TheadvantageoftemporalSAR winter wheat and rapeseed, taking the SAR VV and VH
crop mapping is that its active imaging mode enables it to signals at different single dates and in the different growth
obtain complete observation during the crop growth stage at a periods as the input to establish the key dates and periods.
largescale,makingseamlesscropmappingavailable.Fig.6(a) The closer the value approaches 2, the higher the separability
showsthewintercropmappingresultforHubeiprovincebased is. Fig. 8(a) and (b) indicates the changes of the separability
Authorized licensed use limited to: National Institute of Technology Patna. Downloaded on July 08,2025 at 10:58:17 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.
5649813 IEEETRANSACTIONSONGEOSCIENCEANDREMOTESENSING,VOL.62,2024
Fig. 7. Feature visualization through t-SNE of (a) raw temporal features
of the VV and VH polarizations, and the features extracted by (b) LSTM,
(c)DARNN,(d)DCM,(e)transformermodel,and(f)PhenoCropNet,before
inputtotheclassifier.
Fig.6. (a)WintercropmappinginHubeiprovincebasedonPhenoCropNet.
(b)–(d)Zoomed-inviewcropmappingresultofRF,LSTM,DARNN,DCM,
transformer,andPhenoCropNet.
Fig.8. JMdistancebetweenwinterwheatandrapeseedof(a)eachdateand
(b)growthperiodbytakingtime-seriesSARofdifferenttemporallengthsas
between different phenological dates and periods. A single theinput.Eachsectionbetweentheverticaldottedlinesin(a)correspondsto
date before the mature period is not enough to discriminate agrowthperiodin(b).Thedifferentcolorsinthebottomrepresentdifferent
cropgrowthperiodsinthisstudy.
crops with JM distance under 2 in most cases, while key
dates and temporal SAR in the growth period exert a positive
effect on crop classification, with the obvious increase of wheat, early growth periods, especially the flowering and
JM distance. It shows the necessity to extract the effective mature period, are more important, with attention weights
classification features of important phenological dates and accounting for 90%. For key dates, during the emergence,
periods. opening, and budding period, the first date plays more impor-
To further understanding the phenological pattern that Phe- tant role with attention weights above 0.4, while for the
noCropNet has captured, the attention weights of different flowering and mature period, all the dates in these periods
crop types at each date and in each growth period, as well account for equal importance. Fig. 9(b) and (e) shows that
as the impact of the growth period on crop classification for winter rapeseed, growth periods of flowering and mature
are analyzed. The visualization of attention weights reveals are more critical, with attention weights both above 0.4. And
which date and period PhenoCropNet has focused on when the attention weight of the dates during these crop growth
classifying the crop. Fig. 9(a) and (d) shows that for winter periods are equally important, similar to winter wheat. This
Authorized licensed use limited to: National Institute of Technology Patna. Downloaded on July 08,2025 at 10:58:17 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.
LEIetal.:PhenoCropNet:APHENOLOGY-AWARE-BASEDSARCROPMAPPINGNETWORK 5649813
TABLEIII hierarchical BiGRUA modules to extract the key features
ABLATIONEXPERIMENTRESULTSFORTHEPROPOSED at different levels of phenological growth. The comparison
PHENOCROPNETFRAMEWORK
between Schemes A and B suggests that the division on the
basis of the crop phenological calendar is beneficial to the
accuracy improvement by extracting the features at key dates
in the different phenological periods. The division also helps
to acquire the subtle differences for crops with similar phe-
nological characteristics. The comparison between Schemes
B and C proves the effectiveness of the hierarchical BiGRUA
modulesasithelpstofullyexploretheeffectofthekeyperiod
information.
suggests that the similarly equal attention weight of each
date rather than the outstanding high attention weight of the
singledatemightleadtothehigherattentionofcertaingrowth B. Ability of Early Crop Mapping
period of winter wheat and wheat rapeseed. For other growth Theall-weatherimagingabilityofSARenablesittoacquire
periods, including emergence, opening, and budding period, temporallyconsecutivebackscatteringoftheground,providing
the last or penultimate date occupies the most attention. For thechanceforearlycropidentificationwithoutthedisturbance
other noncrop type, leisure land is taken as a representative of cloud. In the experiment in early crop identification, one
example, as shown in Fig. 9(c) and (f). For leisure land, the SAR imagery at each date was added at a time in order
attention weights of each date fluctuate less compared to crop until all the dates were used. Fig. 9 shows the addition of
types,remainingrelativelystable.Andtheattentionweightsof the temporal information has a positive influence on the crop
the flowering and mature period account for a slightly higher identification, especially for rapeseed, which is evident in the
percentage, around 0.06 higher than those of the emergence, improvementof∼0.3forwinterwheatand∼0.8forrapeseed.
opening, and budding period. The result is consistent to the Theincreaseinthe F1-scoreisprominentlypromotedwiththe
previousstudies[48,40],whichshowthatthejointing-heading addition of the new phenological periods, given the steeper
and flowering stage, corresponding to the flowering period slope from 2020/12/9 to 2020/12/21, 2021/1/26 to 2021/2/19,
(mid-March to early April) in this study is key for winter and 2021/3/15 to 2021/3/27, each of which is contained in
wheat and winter rapeseed classification. a new growth period. In Fig. 11, the gray dotted line is the
Moreover, to show the uncertainty that the growth periods basicstandard F1-scoreaccuracyforearlycropidentification.
bring to PhenoCropNet, in each experiment, the temporal For winter wheat, it can be identified as early as November
sequence of different crop growth period was discarded, and of the previous year when the winter wheat is in the tilling
the soft label value (probability) of each crop type was stage,satisfyingtheneedforyearlystatisticalsurveyingofthe
statisticallyrepresentedashistogram,asshowninFig.10.The crop planting area before the end of the year, and accurately
averagesoftlabelvalueisalsoplottedasthereddottedvertical identified in February of the next year. For rapeseed, it can be
line. For winter wheat, losing the growth period of flowering identifiedinearlyFebruary,whentherapeseedisintheflower
and mature has an adverse impact on the model, with the soft buddevelopmentstage,whichisearlierthantheidentification
label value tend to be evenly distributed around 0.60–0.70. time for optical imagery, which requires imagery in the
In contrast, losing the crop growth period of budding has rapeseedfloweringtime.Similarly,rapeseedcanbeaccurately
the least impact, with most samples of the soft label value identified up until late March, with the addition of more
around 0.7–0.8. For winter rapeseed, losing the crop growth auxiliary temporal information. In general, the application of
period of flowering and mature brings greater uncertainty to PhenoCropNettoSITSofSARdataisafeasibleapproachfor
model classification, with the average probability lower by early-season crop mapping.
about 0.05 compared to losing the emergence, opening, and
budding periods. In general, the impact of crop growth period
C. More Applications in USA
corresponds to the importance of PhenoCropNet attention,
To illustrate the generalization of PhenoCropNet, we have
which demonstrates that PhenoCropNet could concentrate on
applied our proposed method in Iowa, USA, located in
the discriminative periods for crop classification, and the
the Corn and Soybean Belt, for more crop type mapping.
key crop growth periods are significant for accurate crop
Temporal imagery from June 1st to September 30 in
classification.
2020 was used. The training, validation, and test samples
were randomly selected from the Cropland Data Layer (CDL,
IV. DISCUSSIONS
https://www.nass.usda.gov/Research_and_Science/Cropland/
A. Effect of Various Modules
sarsfaqs2.php). Considering the main crop types in Iowa
The ablation studies are designed to illustrate the effec- are corn and soybean, the class categories are simplified
tiveness of the main modules in PhenoCropNet. The ablation by merging the similar land-cover types, finally retaining
experiments are planned in three groups—A, B, and C— the following six categories, including corn, soybean, other
as shown in Table III. Scheme A uses only one BiGRUA vegetable, fallow land, water, impervious, and others. The
module as the network. Scheme B uses the PAI module and F1-score of corn and soybean are 0.7012 and 0.6981,
one BiGRUA module. Scheme C used the PAI module and respectively, taking CDL as ground truth. The zoomed-in
Authorized licensed use limited to: National Institute of Technology Patna. Downloaded on July 08,2025 at 10:58:17 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.
5649813 IEEETRANSACTIONSONGEOSCIENCEANDREMOTESENSING,VOL.62,2024
Fig.9. Visualizationofattentionweightsofkeygrowthdateof(a)winterwheat,(b)winterrapeseed,and(c)leisureland.Visualizationofattentionweights
of key growth period of (d) winter wheat, (e) winter rapeseed, and (f) leisure land. Different colors of the line in (a)–(c) corresponds to the different crop
growthperiodin(d)–(f).
Fig. 10. Histogram of PhenoCropNet probability of (a)–(e) winter wheat and (f)–(j) winter rapeseed by discarding crop growth periods. The red dotted
verticallinerepresentstheaverageprobabilityandtheloweraverageprobabilityindicatesmoreimportanceofthecorrespondinggrowthperiod.
view and zoomed-out view crop mapping results are shown classification in the absence of optical data for cloudy and
in Fig. 12. In general, the corn and soybean crop mapping rainy area, despite of the high accuracy it achieved, there are
result in Iowa keeps high consistency to CDL, especially in still space to improve in the future, coming from more phe-
the north and south areas in Iowa, Fig. 12(b) and (d) shows. nological information addition and speckle reduction of SAR
Although there are isolated misclassifications in the parcel imagery. In the aspect of phenological information fusion,
in the middle area of Iowa, the general distribution of crop adding the information of crop growth period to time-series
is correct compared with CDL. The crop mapping result in data and model improvement as this study proposes is a
Iowa shows the great performance of PhenoCropNet to make solution, while more phenological information related to crop
full use of complete time-series SAR imagery for large-scale growth is supposed to be added, such as growing degree
crop mapping and generalization performance of the model days (GDDs), vegetable index derived from SAR. In the
to be applied in different agricultural area for various crop aspect of SAR speckle, although preprocess could reduce
type mapping. SAR speckle, there are isolated misclassified pixels. Object-
oriented DL technology is supposed to be applied to reduce
D. Limitation and Prospect the misclassification pixels of the result on SAR imagery.
The research objective of this study is how to make better Moreover, fusing optical imagery at key date also provides
use of phenological information of time-series SAR for crop the solution to solve the problem.
Authorized licensed use limited to: National Institute of Technology Patna. Downloaded on July 08,2025 at 10:58:17 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.
LEIetal.:PhenoCropNet:APHENOLOGY-AWARE-BASEDSARCROPMAPPINGNETWORK 5649813
extract the important features in two levels of the key date
and key phenological periods to discriminate crop types with
similar phenological characteristics. Differing from other DL
models, PhenoCropNet considers both the phenological cal-
endar information and prior knowledge about the important
role of key dates and key periods for crop classification,
obtaining the highest accuracy of winter crop classification
compared with other ML methods. The visualization shows
that PhenoCropNet can concentrate on important dates and
periods by automatically adjusting the weight higher. More-
over, the visualization demonstrates that the key date and key
growthperiodsforwintercropmappingarethedateofobvious
morphologychangeandtheperiodoflatematuritywithstable
conditions.
REFERENCES
[1] M.Wuetal.,“Finecropmappingbycombininghighspectralandhigh
spatialresolutionremotesensingdataincomplexheterogeneousareas,”
Comput.Electron.Agricult.,vol.139,pp.1–9,Jun.2017.
[2] S. Yan et al., “Large-scale crop mapping from multi-source optical
Fig.11. F1-scoreofearlycropidentificationaccuracyfor(a)winterwheat satellite imageries using machine learning with discrete grids,” Int.
and(b)winterrapeseedusingPhenoCropNetbytakingSARSITSastheinput J.Appl.EarthObserv.Geoinf.,vol.103,Dec.2021,Art.no.102485.
inanexhaustiveway. [3] L. Liu et al., “Mapping cropping intensity in China using time series
LandsatandSentinel-2imagesandGoogleEarthengine,”RemoteSens.
Environ.,vol.239,Mar.2020,Art.no.111624.
[4] C. Boryan, Z. Yang, R. Mueller, and M. Craig, “Monitoring U.S.
Agriculture: The U.S. Department of agriculture, national agricultural
statisticsservice,croplanddatalayerprogram,”GeocartoInt.,vol.26,
no.5,pp.341–358,Aug.2011.
[5] S. Wang et al., “Urbanization can benefit agricultural production with
large-scalefarminginChina,”NatureFood,vol.2,no.3,pp.183–191,
2021.
[6] X.-Y. Li et al., “Civil war hinders crop production and threatens food
securityinSyria,”NatureFood,vol.3,no.1,pp.38–46,Jan.2022.
[7] D. Wuepper, S. Le Clech, D. Zilberman, N. Mueller, and R. Finger,
“Countries influence the trade-off between crop yields and nitrogen
pollution,”NatureFood,vol.1,no.11,pp.713–719,Nov.2020.
[8] D.RenardandD.Tilman,“Nationalfoodproductionstabilizedbycrop
diversity,”Nature,vol.571,no.7764,pp.257–260,Jul.2019.
[9] F. Mouret, M. Albughdadi, S. Duthoit, D. Kouamé, G. Rieu, and
J.Y.Tourneret,“ReconstructionofSentinel-2derivedtimeseriesusing
robustGaussianmixturemodels—Applicationtothedetectionofanoma-
louscropdevelopment,”Comput.Electron.Agricult.,vol.198,Jul.2022,
Art.no.106983.
[10] W.Jiang,B.Tian,Y.Duan,C.Chen,andY.Hu,“Rapidmappingand
spatial analysis on the distribution of photovoltaic power stations with
Sentinel-1&2imagesinChinesecoastalprovinces,”Int.J.Appl.Earth
Observ.Geoinf.,vol.118,Apr.2023,Art.no.103280.
[11] J.Pangetal.,“Pixel-levelRiceplantinginformationmonitoringinfujin
city based on time-series SAR imagery,” Int. J. Appl. Earth Observ.
Geoinf.,vol.104,Dec.2021,Art.no.102551.
[12] G. Fontanelli et al., “Early-season crop mapping on an agricultural
area in Italy using X-band dual-polarization SAR satellite data and
convolutionalneuralnetworks,”IEEEJ.Sel.TopicsAppl.EarthObserv.
RemoteSens.,vol.15,pp.6789–6803,2022.
Fig. 12. Application of PhenoCropNet for crop mapping in Iowa, USA,
[13] M. Arii, H. Yamada, H. Sakamoto, and S. Kojima, “Sensitivity study
in 2020. (a) Zoomed-out view crop mapping in Iowa. (b)–(d) Zoomed-in
ofX-bandmultiparametricSARdatafromcabbagefields,”IEEETrans.
viewcropmappinginlocalregion.
Geosci.RemoteSens.,vol.60,2022,Art.no.5203611.
[14] Z. He et al., “Novel harmonic-based scheme for mapping Rice-crop
intensity at a large scale using time-series Sentinel-1 and ERA5-
V. CONCLUSION land datasets,” IEEE Trans. Geosci. Remote Sens., vol. 62, 2024,
Art.no.4406523.
In this article, a phenology-aware-based crop mapping net- [15] G.W.Gella,W.Bijker,andM.Belgiu,“Mappingcroptypesincomplex
farmingareasusingSARimagerywithdynamictimewarping,”ISPRS
work named PhenoCropNet has been proposed for large-scale
J.Photogramm.RemoteSens.,vol.175,pp.171–183,May2021.
crop mapping at cloudy areas by exploiting time-series SAR [16] S. Xu et al., “A robust index to extract paddy fields in cloudy regions
data.PhenoCropNetgroupsthetime-seriesbackscatteringsig- from SAR time series,” Remote Sens. Environ., vol. 285, Feb. 2023,
Art.no.113374.
nalaccordingtothecropphenologicalcalendar,andintroduces
[17] H.Bazzietal.,“MappingpaddyRiceusingSentinel-1SARtimeseries
a hierarchical phenology self-attention network structure to incamargue,France,”RemoteSens.,vol.11,no.7,p.887,Apr.2019.
Authorized licensed use limited to: National Institute of Technology Patna. Downloaded on July 08,2025 at 10:58:17 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.
5649813 IEEETRANSACTIONSONGEOSCIENCEANDREMOTESENSING,VOL.62,2024
[18] D. B. Nguyen, A. Gruber, and W. Wagner, “Mapping Rice extent and [38] L.Zhu,V.C.Radeloff,andA.R.Ives,“Improvingthemappingofcrop
croppingschemeintheMekongdeltausingSentinel-1Adata,”Remote types in the Midwestern U.S. by fusing Landsat and MODIS satellite
Sens.Lett.,vol.7,no.12,pp.1209–1218,Dec.2016. data,”Int.J.Appl.EarthObserv.Geoinf.,vol.58,pp.1–11,Jun.2017.
[19] H. Li, C. Zhang, S. Zhang, and P. M. Atkinson, “Crop classification [39] A.Kushwaha,R.Dave,G.Kumar,K.Saha,andA.Khan,“Assessment
fromfull-yearfully-polarimetricL-bandUAVSARtime-seriesusingthe ofRicecropbiophysicalparametersusingSentinel-1C-bandSARdata,”
random forest algorithm,” Int. J. Appl. Earth Observ. Geoinf., vol. 87, Adv.SpaceRes.,vol.70,no.12,pp.3833–3844,Dec.2022.
May2020,Art.no.102032. [40] S. Meng, X. Wang, X. Hu, C. Luo, and Y. Zhong, “Deep learning-
[20] S. Hariharan, D. Mandal, S. Tirodkar, V. Kumar, A. Bhattacharya, basedcropmappinginthecloudyseasonusingone-shothyperspectral
and J. M. Lopez-Sanchez, “A novel phenology based feature subset satellite imagery,” Comput. Electron. Agricult., vol. 186, Jul. 2021,
selectiontechniqueusingrandomforestformultitemporalPolSARcrop Art.no.106188.
classification,” IEEE J. Sel. Topics Appl. Earth Observ. Remote Sens., [41] N. Gorelick, M. Hancher, M. Dixon, S. Ilyushchenko, D. Thau, and
vol.11,no.11,pp.4244–4258,Nov.2018. R.Moore, “Google Earth Engine: Planetary-scale geospatial analysis
foreveryone,”RemoteSens.Environ.,vol.202,pp.18–27,Dec.2017.
[21] H. Zhang, Y. Wang, J. Shang, M. Liu, and Q. Li, “Investigating
[42] M.-T. Luong, H. Pham, and C. D. Manning, “Effective approaches to
the impact of classification features and classifiers on crop mapping
attention-basedneuralmachinetranslation,”2015,arXiv:1508.04025.
performance in heterogeneous agricultural landscapes,” Int. J. Appl.
EarthObserv.Geoinf.,vol.102,Oct.2021,Art.no.102388. [43] X. Wang, R. Girshick, A. Gupta, and K. He, “Non-local neural
networks,” in Proc. IEEE/CVF Conf. Comput. Vis. Pattern Recognit.,
[22] M. F. Celik, M. S. Isik, G. Taskin, E. Erten, and G. Camps-Valls,
Jun.2018,pp.7794–7803.
“Explainable artificial intelligence for cotton yield prediction with
[44] L.Breiman,“Randomforests,”Mach.Learn.,vol.45,no.1,pp.5–32,
multisource data,” IEEE Geosci. Remote Sens. Lett., vol. 20, pp.1–5,
Oct.2001.
2023.
[45] L. Zhong, L. Hu, and H. Zhou, “Deep learning based multi-temporal
[23] J. Ni, C. López-Martínez, Z. Hu, and F. Zhang, “Multitemporal SAR
crop classification,” Remote Sens. Environ., vol. 221, pp.430–443,
and polarimetric SAR optimization and classification: Reinterpreting
Feb.2019.
temporalcoherence,”IEEETrans.Geosci.RemoteSens.,vol.60,2022,
[46] H.-W. Jo et al., “Deep learning applications on multitemporal SAR
Art.no.5236617.
(Sentinel-1) image classification using confined labeled data: The case
[24] M. Rußwurm and M. Körner, “Self-attention for raw optical satel- ofdetectingRicepaddyinSouthKorea,”IEEETrans.Geosci.Remote
lite time series classification,” ISPRS J. Photogramm. Remote Sens., Sens.,vol.58,no.11,pp.7589–7601,Nov.2020.
vol.169,pp.421–435,Nov.2020.
[47] A.Vaswanietal.,“Attentionisallyouneed,”inProc.Adv.NeuralInf.
[25] L. Lei, X. Wang, Y. Zhong, H. Zhao, X. Hu, and C. Luo, “DOCC: Process.Syst.,vol.30,2017,pp.1–11.
Deep one-class crop classification via positive and unlabeled learning [48] S. Liu et al., “The accuracy of winter wheat identification at different
for multi-modal satellite imagery,” Int. J. Appl. Earth Observ. Geoinf., growth stages using remote sensing,” Remote Sens., vol. 14, no. 4,
vol.105,Dec.2021,Art.no.102598. p.893,Feb.2022.
[26] L. Yang et al., “Semantic segmentation based on temporal fea-
tures: Learning of temporal–spatial information from time-series SAR
images for paddy Rice mapping,” IEEE Trans. Geosci. Remote Sens.,
vol.60,2022,Art.no.4403216.
[27] Z.Linetal.,“Large-scaleRicemappingusingmulti-taskspatiotemporal
deep learning and Sentinel-1 SAR time series,” Remote Sens., vol. 14,
no.3,p.699,Feb.2022.
[28] E. Ndikumana, D. Ho Tong Minh, N. Baghdadi, D. Courault, and
L.Hossard,“Deeprecurrentneuralnetworkforagriculturalclassification
using multitemporal SAR Sentinel-1 for camargue, France,” Remote
Sens.,vol.10,no.8,p.1217,Aug.2018.
Lei Lei received the B.S. degree from Southwest
[29] Z. Han, C. Zhang, L. Gao, Z. Zeng, B. Zhang, and P.M.Atkinson,
Jiaotong University, Chengdu, China, in 2020. She
“Spatio-temporal multi-level attention crop mapping method using
is currently pursuing the Ph.D. degree in pho-
time-series SAR imagery,” ISPRS J. Photogramm. Remote Sens.,
togrammetryandremotesensingwiththeStateKey
vol.206,pp.293–310,Dec.2023.
LaboratoryofInformationEngineeringinSurveying,
[30] L. E. C. La Rosa, D. A. B. Oliveira, and P. Ghamisi, “Learning crop- Mapping and Remote Sensing, Wuhan University,
type mapping from regional label proportions in large-scale SAR and Wuhan,China.
optical imagery,” IEEE Trans. Geosci. Remote Sens., vol. 61, 2023, Her research interests include deep learning and
Art.no.4409615. cropmapping.
[31] J. Xu et al., “DeepCropMapping: A multi-temporal deep learning
approach with improved spatial generalizability for dynamic corn
and soybean mapping,” Remote Sens. Environ., vol. 247, Sep. 2020,
Art.no.111946.
[32] T.DiMartino,R.Guinvarc’h,L.Thirion-Lefevre,andÉ.Colin,“Grad-
SLAM:Explainingconvolutionalautoencoders’Latentspaceofsatellite
imagetimeseries,”IEEEGeosci.RemoteSens.Lett.,vol.20,pp.1–5,
2023.
[33] R. R. Selvaraju, M. Cogswell, A. Das, R. Vedantam, D. Parikh, and
D. Batra, “Grad-CAM: Visual explanations from deep networks via
gradient-basedlocalization,”2016,arXiv:1610.02391.
[34] L. Zhong, P. Gong, and G. S. Biging, “Efficient corn and soybean
Xinyu Wang (Member, IEEE) received the B.S.
mapping with temporal extendability: A multi-year experiment using
degreeinphotogrammetryandremotesensingfrom
Landsatimagery,”RemoteSens.Environ.,vol.140,pp.1–13,Jan.2014.
theSchoolofRemoteSensingandInformationEngi-
[35] N. You et al., “The 10-m crop type maps in northeast China during neering,WuhanUniversity,Wuhan,China,in2014,
2017–2019,”Sci.Data,vol.8,no.1,p.41,Feb.2021.
and the Ph.D. degree in communication and infor-
[36] H. Zhang, W. Liu, and L. Zhang, “Seamless and automated rapeseed mation systems from the State Key Laboratory of
mapping for large cloudy regions using time-series optical satellite InformationEngineeringinSurveying,Mappingand
imagery,” ISPRS J. Photogramm. Remote Sens., vol. 184, pp.45–62, Remote Sensing (LIESMARS), Wuhan University,
Feb.2022. in2019.
[37] K. Van Tricht, A. Gobin, S. Gilliams, and I. Piccard, “Synergistic use He is currently an Associate Research Fellow
of radar Sentinel-1 and optical Sentinel-2 imagery for crop mapping: withtheSchoolofRemoteSensingandInformation
A case study for Belgium,” Remote Sens., vol. 10, no. 10, p.1642, Engineering,WuhanUniversity.Hisresearchinterestsrangefromagriculture
Oct.2018. remotesensing,hyperspectralunmixing,andtargetdetection.
Authorized licensed use limited to: National Institute of Technology Patna. Downloaded on July 08,2025 at 10:58:17 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.
LEIetal.:PhenoCropNet:APHENOLOGY-AWARE-BASEDSARCROPMAPPINGNETWORK 5649813
Xin Hu (Member, IEEE) received the B.S. Sensing (ASPRS), and the 2016 Best Paper Theoretical Innovation Award
degreeinsurveyingandmappingengineeringfrom fromtheInternationalSocietyforOpticsandPhotonics(SPIE).Hisresearch
NortheasternUniversity,Shenyang,China,in2017, teams won the top three prizes of the IEEE GRSS 2014 Data Fusion
andthePh.D.degreeinphotogrammetryandremote Contest,andhisstudentshavebeenselectedasthewinnersorfinalistsofthe
sensing with the State Key Laboratory of Informa- IEEE International Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium (IGARSS)
tionEngineeringinSurveying,MappingandRemote StudentPaperContestinrecentyears.HeistheFoundingChairoftheIEEE
Sensing (LIESMARS), Wuhan University, Wuhan, GeoscienceandRemoteSensingSociety(GRSS)WuhanChapter.Heserved
China,in2022. as an Associate Editor or Editor for more than ten international journals.
He is now a Senior Engineer with Guangzhou HeiscurrentlyservingasanAssociateEditorforIEEETRANSACTIONSON
Urban Planning and Design Survey Research Insti- GEOSCIENCEANDREMOTESENSING.
tute,Guangzhou,China.Hismajorresearchinterests
includeagriculturalremotesensingandhyperspectralimageclassification.
YanfeiZhong(SeniorMember,IEEE)receivedthe
B.S.degreeininformationengineeringandthePh.D.
degreeinphotogrammetryandremotesensingfrom
Liangpei Zhang (Fellow, IEEE) received the B.S. WuhanUniversity,Wuhan,China,in2002and2007,
degree in physics from Hunan Normal University, respectively.
Changsha, China, in 1982, the M.S. degree in Since2010,hehasbeenaFullProfessorwiththe
optics from Xi’an Institute of Optics and Precision State Key Laboratory of Information Engineering
Mechanics, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Xi’an, inSurveying,MappingandRemoteSensing(LIES-
China,in1988,andthePh.D.degreeinphotogram- MARS), Wuhan University. He has organized the
metry and remote sensing from Wuhan University, Intelligent Data Extraction, Analysis and Applica-
Wuhan,China,in1998. tionsofRemoteSensing(RSIDEA)ResearchGroup.
He is a “Chang-Jiang Scholar” Chair Professor Hehasauthoredover100researcharticlesininternationaljournals,suchas
appointed by the Ministry of Education of China RemoteSensingofEnvironment,ISPRSJournalofPhotogrammetry,Remote
withtheStateKeyLaboratoryofInformationEngi- Sensing, and IEEETRANSACTIONSONGEOSCIENCEANDREMOTESENS-
neering in Surveying, Mapping and Remote Sensing (LIESMARS), Wuhan ING.Hisresearchinterestsincludehyperspectralremotesensinginformation
University. He was a Principal Scientist for the China State Key Basic processing, high-resolution remote sensing image understanding, and geo-
ResearchProject(2011–2016)appointedbytheMinistryofNationalScience scienceinterpretationformultisourceremotesensingdataandapplications.
and Technology of China to lead the remote sensing program in China. Dr. Zhong is a fellow of the Institution of Engineering and Technology
Hehasauthoredover700researcharticlesandfivebooks.HeisanInstitute (IET). He received the 2016 Best Paper Theoretical Innovation Award from
for Scientific Information (ISI) Highly Cited Author. He currently holds the International Society for Optics and Photonics (SPIE). He won the
30patents.Hisresearchinterestsincludehyperspectralremotesensing,high- Second-Place Prize in the 2013 IEEE GRSS Data Fusion Contest and the
resolutionremotesensing,imageprocessing,andartificialintelligence. Single-View Semantic 3-D Challenge of the 2019 IEEE GRSS Data Fusion
Dr. Zhang is a fellow of the Institution of Engineering and Technology Contest,respectively.HeiscurrentlyservingasanAssociateEditorforIEEE
(IET).Hereceivedthe2010BestPaperBoeingAward,the2013BestPaper JOURNALOFSELECTEDTOPICSINAPPLIEDEARTHOBSERVATIONSAND
ERDASAwardfromtheAmericanSocietyofPhotogrammetryandRemote REMOTESENSINGandtheInternationalJournalofRemoteSensing.
Authorized licensed use limited to: National Institute of Technology Patna. Downloaded on July 08,2025 at 10:58:17 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.